Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/10-alternative-things-to-do-in-singapore/

Title: 10 alternative things to do in Singapore

Welcome to new experiences unlike any other.

Sure, you might’ve been here before, but there’s definitely lots more you haven’t seen and done in the city. Second-time visitors, bookmark this list and check it off to be sure you experience all that Singapore has to offer, from the well-known to the (relatively) unknown.

1. Try island hopping

Visit one of Singapore’s newest attractions, Coney Island. Situated off the northeastern coast of Singapore, this 50-hectare island is accessible on foot from Punggol Point Park and is great for cycling and bird-watching. Other islands worth visiting include Lazarus Island and Pulau Seringat, which are both linked and part of Singapore's Southern Islands. Hop onto a ferry at Marina South Pier and drop off at St John's Island, where unspoilt beaches await.

2. Shop for homegrown labels (and get the best deals)

Check out Singapore’s local talent and international indie labels at fashion stores like In Good Company at ION Orchard and SABRINAGOH at Raffles City Shopping Centre. Alternatively, head to Sects Shop by Depression and SUPERSPACE at orchardgateway for everyday wear, edgy pieces, trendy outfits and more. If you’re looking for great deals, there’s sportswear Mecca Queensway Shopping Centre and for outlet shopping, head to IMM Jurong for brands like Charles & Keith, Adidas and COACH.

3. Tuck into local delights

4. Check out the café scene

Singapore is home to a thriving café scene and coffee culture, with joints like Chye Seng Huat Hardware, Symmetry and Maison Ikkoku boasting amazing coffee and mouth-watering food. You don’t have to stop there—there are even more options in the Bugis and Lavender area, including Melbourne-inspired coffee house The Hangar.



5. Visit a farm (or two)

Singapore may be known to many as an urban metropolis, but don’t be surprised to find several farms in the outskirts of the city.

Bollywood Veggies, Lian Wah Hang Quail Farm, and Jurong Frog Farm are fascinating places if you’re keen on a quick visit, but if you want to take things up a notch and stay on a farm, there’s D’Kranji Farm Resort—a laid-back retreat located in the Lim Chu Kang area featuring spacious villas, spa services and activities like prawning.

6. Visit lesser-known museums and galleries

Besides grand old dames like the National Museum of Singapore and world-famous art repositories like the National Gallery Singapore, our island is home to a whole host of charming cultural spaces. Lovers of retro culture can drop by the MINT Museum of Toys, while art aficionados will find a range of oriental artefacts at Black Earth Art Museum. If you’re looking for a dose of both culture and community, drop by My Queenstown Museum. This charming space is Singapore’s first independent community museum, and home to old photographs, cultural artefacts and nostalgic knickknacks.

7. Embrace the great outdoors

Singapore is home to a number of beautiful green destinations and outdoor attractions. You could cycle along East Coast Park (and hang out at the beach after), hike MacRitchie Reservoir and conquer the 250-metre-long suspension bridge known as the HSBC Tree Top Walk, visit the mangroves of Mandai or take a stroll along Punggol Waterway Park.





8. Go on a heritage trail

Learn about Singapore's rich history with heritage trails like the one around Queenstown and the War trails by Changi Museum. The former features free guided tours around the Dawson and Alexandra neighbourhoods in Queenstown—which take place every last Saturday of the month (register here)—while the latter’s motorcoach-facilitated guided trails revisit some of the country's most iconic WWII sites around the Changi area. History buffs can check out more history tours here.

9. Explore Singapore’s wet markets

Discover the spots where locals shop for fresh produce, frozen meats, spices, dried foods, and more at wet markets in neighbourhoods like Tiong Bahru (Tiong Bahru Wet Market), Chinatown (Chinatown Complex) and Little India (Tekka Centre). The best bit? You could venture out and explore the heartlands in these areas to see what the locals are really up to.

10. Stay active