Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/rooftop-bars-with-amazing-views/

Title: 4 rooftop bars to check out in Singapore

There’s nothing quite like enjoying a good tipple with the wind in your hair and a great view of the city lights. Pay a visit to these eight rooftop bars, and take your drinking escapades to a higher level (literally).

Smoke & Mirrors

The artwork at the iconic National Gallery Singapore isn’t the only beautiful sight you’ll get to feast your eyes on. Walk through a building steeped in heritage, and pay a visit to the rooftop, where you’ll find Smoke & Mirrors. Enjoy a unique drinking experience alongside the panoramic view; head bartender Jorge Conde’s innovative cocktail menu—dubbed “Illusions of Flavour—is divided into six distinct categories that evoke different flavour profiles, and pay homage to artists like Salvador Dali, Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol. National Gallery Singapore. 1 St. Andrew’s Road #06-01, Singapore 178957. +65 9380 6313.

Mon-Tue & Sun 6pm-midnight; Thu 6-9pm; Fri & Sat 6pm-1am.

Potato Head Singapore

Spread over four floors and located inside an iconic heritage building in the heart of Chinatown, Potato Head Singapore is a multi-concept F&B establishment that offers up hearty comfort food, amazing tipples and a buzzy ambience. The bar plays an eclectic mix of electronic and dance music, and holds weekly sunset parties every Sunday, making it the perfect place to spend the weekend with new friends. Potato Head Singapore. 36 Keong Saik Road, Singapore 089143. +65 6327 1939.

Daily 11am-midnight.

Lantern

A bar that draws inspiration from Clifford Pier’s historical nickname of Red Lantern Pier, Lantern is nestled atop The Fullerton Bay Hotel Singapore. Groove out to sensual house beats, enjoy the mesmerising view of Marina Bay waterfront, and sip on a Berry Mojito by the bar’s pool. We recommend visiting for dinner before 8pm, and staying for after-meal drinks—the bar’s view of Marina Bay Sands® will allow you to enjoy Spectra—A Light And Water Show, without having to leave your seat. The Fullerton Bay Hotel. 80 Collyer Quay Rooftop, Singapore 049326. +65 6877 8911.

Tue-Thu 5pm-midnight; Fri & Sat 5pm-1am.

Southbridge