Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/pet-friendly-cafes-restaurants/

Title: 6 pet-friendly cafes in SG

Mealtimes just aren’t the same without your pet staring lovingly at you (and whatever’s on your plate). If that’s a sentiment that you can relate to, then fret not—the Lion City is home to a whole range of cafes and brunch spots where you can while away the afternoon with your pooch or kitty.

Read on for the low-down on pet-friendly restaurants in Singapore, and be sure to check out our guide on accommodation for your furry companion while you’re at it!

Coastes

Looking to while away a lazy weekend afternoon with your pet? Look no further than Coastes. Located along the white sands of Siloso Beach, this laidback eatery serves up a range of brunch fare and Western comfort food, including fish and chips, seafood stew and Angus beef cheeseburgers.

While you wait for your meal, grab a deck chair along the expansive beach front, kick back and relax with an ice-cold beer in hand. The restaurant also has a kid’s menu on the weekend, making it ideal for families planning an outing with their pet in tow.

Coastes. 50 Siloso Beach Walk #01-05, Singapore 099000. Daily 9am-10pm.

Deadfall

Drinking alone is never as fun as drinking with a companion (even if your pet isn’t a great conversationalist). If you enjoy your pooch’s company, you don’t have to restrict yourself to drinking at home—Instead, mosey on by Deadfall at Clarke Quay.

Modelled after the saloons that lined the docks of San Francisco during the Gold Rush, this dog-friendly watering hole boasts a wide selection of beers, wines and cocktails. The latter are named after their distinctive hue and include concoctions like Mr Black—made with vodka, coffee liqueur and Cold Brew Coffee.

If you’re feeling peckish, you can line your stomach with an array of delectable bar food, which include poutine, fish tacos and Deadfall’s iconic sandos.

Deadfall at Barbary coast. 16 North Canal Road, Singapore 048828. +65 8869 4798. Mon-Sat noon-10.30pm.

Five Oars Coffee Roasters

If you’re looking to feed your Instagram as well as your craving for brunch fare, this next spot is bound to be right up your alley. With its Instagram-worthy dishes and chic industrial décor, Five Oars Coffee Roasters is fast becoming one of the most popular weekend hangout spots in the East Coast neighbourhood.

Once you’ve snagged an outdoor seat for yourself and your pet, you can chow down on delicious dishes like Pork Benedict, Crab Scramble and Salted Caramel Banana Waffle. The café is also famous for its coffee, made with beans from Ethiopia, Brazil and Colombia.

Five Oars Coffee Roasters. 6 Upper East Coast Road, Singapore 455200. +65 8784 2686. Daily 8am-10pm.

Wheeler’s Estate Set in a vast open space of verdant greenery, Wheeler’s Estate is a great spot for pet lovers looking to mix food, play and a spot of exploration. Located in an iconic colonial bungalow at the Seletar Aerospace Park, the restaurant boasts a wealth of spaces that you can explore with your animal companion. Dig into a selection of Western food like lamb ribs, prosciutto and whiskey-marinated pork belly at their alfresco restaurant, and then take your pet for a stroll through the lawn. Before you leave, be sure to snap a photo with your pet next to the iconic silver camper van at the front of the establishment. Wheeler’s Estate at Seletar Aerospace Park. 2 Park Lane, Singapore 798386. +65 6262 0001. Tue-Fri 11.30am-11pm; Sat & Sun 9am-11pm.

Sun Ray Café

Planning to pamper your pet? Drop by Sun Ray Café for a meal that’s bound to leave you and your fur baby beaming with delight.

Besides its wholesome Western fare and extensive selection coffee, the café also boasts a dedicated pet menu that’s bound to make an epicurean out of your pup. The latter includes treats like chicken balls, shepherd’s pie and even a bento-styled set.

Pet owners won’t be going hungry here either, and can feast on waffles and ice cream, eggplant lasagne and dry-aged striploin steak with eggs.

If you’re sentimental about your pet’s birthday, be sure to check out their selection of pet cakes to commemorate the occasion.

Sun Ray Café at Serangoon Gardens. 79 Brighton Crescent, Singapore 559218. +65 8909 8458. Mon-Thu, Sat & Sun 8.30am-9.30pm; Fri 8.30am-10.30pm.

The Coastal Settlement [Changi]

A tranquil space set amid verdant greenery in the Changi neighbourhood, The Coastal Settlement is an ideal spot for pet owners to unwind with their companion.

The café’s menu is an East-meets-West affair, with American staples like truffle fries and baby back ribs sitting alongside Asian fusion dishes like har cheong gai (chicken fried with prawn paste) and fish head curry.

Ample outdoor seating abounds here, so you needn’t fret about being able to get a seat. The restaurant is a popular haunt for pet owners, so chances are that your pet will be able to make a furry friend or two while you’re here.

The Coastal Settlement. 200 Netheravon Road, Singapore 508529. +65 6475 0200. Mon-Fri 10.30am-11pm; Sat, Sun & PH 8.30am-11pm.