Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/instagrammable-cafes-in-singapore/

Title: 9 Instagrammable Cafes in Singapore

Singapore is home to a multitude of dishes that are a feast for both the eyes and the stomach. At these Instagram-worthy cafes, you’ll get to delight your taste buds, hone your skills in food photography, and share the experience with your friends online.

Bacha Coffee

Now you can spend leisurely afternoons sipping coffee like how Franklin Roosevelt, Winston Churchill and Charlie Chaplin did at the Dar el Bacha palace in the old medina of Marrakech.

Founded in 1910, Bacha Coffee has opened its first international luxury coffeehouse at Ion Orchard. The gorgeous 30-seater bistro boasts black and white marble floors, brass chandeliers, mirrored ceilings and vibrant indigo latticework all carefully designed to resemble its original counterpart in Morocco.

Coffee connoisseurs will be spoilt for choice with more than 200 brews from 33 countries, each one accompanied with Chantilly whipped cream, steamed milk, rock sugar and cracked vanilla bean.

Complete your experience with Morrocan delicacies such as chicken pastilla (savoury pie) and traditional kefta (finely ground beef or lamb) meatballs.

Photo tip: Hundreds of iconic square coffee canisters line the floor-to-ceiling shelves to create a stunning photo wall. Be sure to snap a photo here on your way out.

ION Orchard Mall. 2 Orchard Turn #01-15/16, Singapore 238801. +65 6363 1910.

Daily 11am-9pm.

Chin Sin Huan

Retro design meets sleek modernity at this second-generation café, which is decked out with traditional chairs, pink walls and Instagram-worthy interiors. The result is a beautiful contrast of old and new that makes for striking photo opportunities.

The local delights served here are handmade on a daily basis—To expand your palette with a taste of Asia, we suggest sampling their Lor Mai Kai (Glutinous Chicken Rice), Fan Choy (barbequed pork belly with glutinous rice), or traditional dim sum (bite-sized portions of food served in steamer baskets or small plates).

Photo tip: Shoot from a 45-degree angle, which provides for a more evocative and naturalistic presentation.

Chin Sin Huan. 285 Jalan Besar, Singapore 208948. +65 6906 4957. Mon-Fri 8am-8pm; Sat 8am-6pm.

Five Oars Coffee Roasters

Nestled amidst the charming shophouses in the Tanjong Pagar precinct, this popular brunch spot stands out effortlessly with its modern industrial-chic vibe and lush green plants.

Go for the iced coffee, made with double shots of their signature house blend roasted exclusively in Singapore. Expect a well-balanced cup with hints of dark chocolate and hazelnut.

Food photography lovers will be pleased to discover that every dish on the extensive brunch menu seems to be plated to Instagram perfection.

Don’t miss the decadent Creme Brûlée French Toast or the Mentaiko Royale, both of which taste every bit as delish as they look.

Photo tip: If you happen to be there in the afternoon, avoid the outdoor tables as the sun can be unforgivingly intense. Shooting in direct sunlight can make your food look harsh. Alternatively, try switching on the HDR (high dynamic range) setting on your camera to combat the dark shadows.

Five Oars Coffee Roasters. 6 Upper East Coast Road, Singapore 455200. +65 87842686.

Daily 8am-8pm.

Glyph Supply Co

Though a relative newcomer to the scene, you’ll want to put this cafe and roastery on your next must-visit list. The establishment is a short walk from Somerset MRT, making it a great pitstop if you happen to be shopping along Orchard Road.

The beans are sourced from exotic places such as Honduras, Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Myanmar. Order the cold brew, meticulously prepared by dropping iced water over coffee grounds across a period of 28 hours, with one drop of water every two seconds.

Fans of minimal aesthetics will swoon over the clean whitewashed interiors and all-white furnishings. The floor-to-ceiling windows play their part allowing plenty of natural light in to create a bright and pretty space.

Photo tip: Plan your outfit beforehand. Come dressed in a monochrome or neutral palette and simply strike a pose to achieve that perfect pared-back snap.

Glyph Supply Co. TripleOne Somerset, 111 Somerset Road #01-06, Singapore 238164.

Mon-Fri 8.30am-7pm; Sat-Sun 10am-7pm.

Lucid

Meet the new kid on the block serving up artisanal coffee and freshly made desserts.

Opened by two National Brewers’ Cup champions, this hipster cafe in the suburban neighbourhood of Lavender prides itself on its medium dark roast with notes of chocolate and citrus.

Those with a sweet tooth should try the Instagram-worthy Cloud Beta v.01. As its name suggests, a fluffy cloud is fashioned from white chocolate mousse and generously filled with tangy strawberry basil.

Here the walls are stripped bare and furnishings kept deliberately simple for a raw industrial vibe. This quiet comfortable spot is a great place to unwind on lazy days.

Photo tip: Instead of capturing a perfectly composed dish, add hands or a fork slicing through your dessert. This adds authenticity to the photo and also shows off the inner textures and ingredients better.

Lucid. 38 Hamilton Road, Singapore 209208.

Thu-Tue 11am-7pm.

Sinpopo Brand

With its grilled storefront, tiled floors and rattan chairs, Sinpopo Brand is an ode to Singapore in the 80s.

While the café’s décor is undoubtedly nostalgic, the food served here is made with an eye towards both modern innovation and traditional rigour—their nasi lemak (rice cooked in coconut milk, served with an array of side dishes) rice is steamed in a muslin cloth, and the coffee is made Nanyang-style (southern coastal region of China, but also commonly used to refer to the ethnic Chinese population of Southeast Asia) with a kopi sock.

Desserts are a must for foodies with a sweet tooth, as their cakes are inspired by traditional desserts like ondeh ondeh (glutinous balls filled with palm sugar) and pulut hitam (black glutinous rice in coconut milk).

Photo tip: Incorporate props—the café is filled with interesting knick-knacks that you can borrow to add interest to your flat lays. Just be sure to return them to their original places when you’re done!

Sinpopo Brand. 458 Joo Chiat Road, Singapore 427671. +65 6345 5034.

Mon–Thu & Sun noon-10pm; Fri & Sat noon-midnight.

Straits Clan

At this private social club, non-members are allowed to dine at the cafe on the first floor. But even if there are no stars to ogle at, the beautiful decor should be enough to impress.

Thoughtfully designed by British architect Marc Webb and Japanese interior designer Naoko Takenouchi—the duo behind many of Singapore’s see-and-be-seen establishments—the space features Southeast Asian motifs and exudes an elegant tranquility.

The menu here leans towards wholesome fare such as grain bowls, salads and nourishing broths. A selection of wellness tea blends such as lavender peppermint and rose oolong should complement your meal nicely.

Photo tip: Use negative space. Just like the uncluttered interiors of this cafe, create some breathing space in your photo by not zooming all the way on your dish. Visually, this is more soothing on the eyes and mind.

Straits Clan. 31 Bukit Pasoh Road, Singapore 089845. +65 6320 9180.

The Glasshouse

Getting your java fix has never looked this good. Situated in the lush greenery of CHIJMES, The Glasshouse is a haven for coffee-lovers looking to unwind amidst the urban bustle.

Besides its artisanal toasts and pastries, the café is a great way to experience our buzzing local café scene. The line-up of coffees served here changes every month, with brews occasionally featuring a selection of local roasters.

We suggest pairing your cuppa with their open-faced toasts. These baked goods come in a range of flavours, and look as good as they taste.

Beside minimalist décor, abundance of natural light and its garden-like interior, the café also boasts ample space to snap a variety of shots for your ‘gram.

Photo tip: Make full use of the natural lighting here by snagging a spot by the window. If you’re there in the late afternoon, experiment with the existing shadows, for a partially illuminated photo that possesses both depth and contrast.

CHIJMES. 30 Victoria Street #01-03, Singapore 187996. +65 6900 3237.

Mon-Thu 8am-5pm; Fri 8am-9pm; Sat 9am-10pm; Sun 9am-6pm.

The White Rabbit

With a name that evokes Lewis Carroll’s classic yarn—Alice in Wonderland—this beautiful café is a great location for an Instagram-worthy brunch.

Set in a restored colonial chapel, the restaurant’s interior hearkens back to the days of the British Empire, with its stained glass windows and classic European fare.

The brunch menu consists primarily of both hearty staples for heavy eaters—like wagyu quarter pounder burgers and lobster linguine—as well as light nosh like avocado toast.

Be sure to save space for the crepe suzette—a decadent dessert that’s lit on fire as a charming tableside performance.

Photo Tip: With such a beautiful space, framing is key. Incorporate both the foreground and the background to give a better context to your food photography. Their outdoor garden and bar is a popular place for both OOTDs and couple shots.

The White Rabbit. 39C Harding Road, Singapore 249541. +65 6473 9965.

Tue & Fri 11.45am-2.30pm, 6.30-10.30pm; Wed & Thu noon-2.30pm, 6.30-10.30pm; Sat & Sun 11am-3pm, 6.30-10.30pm.