Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/singapore-itineraries/2-day-guide-for-fitness-enthusiasts/#recreation-leisure

Title: A 2-day guide for fitness enthusiasts

1 Ritual Gym Work up a sweat While you can’t lug dumbbells through transit, it doesn’t mean that exercise is out of the question. Busy travellers hoping to engage in a fuss-free, time-efficient workout can spend the morning at Ritual Gym. Catered to go-getters with packed schedules, this establishment is known for delivering compact, highly-efficient workouts— Prep, work up a sweat, and shower, all in just 30 minutes. The gym boasts small class sessions of no more than 10 participants and a dynamic regime that mixes cardio and strength training for beginners and aspiring athletes alike.

2 Fort Canning Park Explore nature and history Spend the rest of the morning exploring nature and history, with a quiet walk at Fort Canning Park. Formerly known as the Forbidden Hill, Fort Canning Park houses both verdant greenery and historical insight, making it a great place to relax and unwind. Singapore’s ancient kings once ruled from this spot, originally known as Bukit Larangan (Forbidden Hill). The location remained a seat of political power during the colonial era, when it was renamed Governors’ Hill, and became the home of Singapore’s Resident Ministers. Fort Canning Park is also home to various herb and spice plants that are staples in Singaporean cuisine. Visiting food lovers should keep their eyes peeled for nutmeg trees, cardamom plants and wild pepper vines as they stroll through this tranquil space.

3 Labyrinth Have a locally-sourced lunch For lunch, chow down on a delicious, locally-sourced meal at Labyrinth. Helmed by chef-owner Han Li Guang, this Michelin-starred restaurant prides itself on creating eco-friendly dishes and culinary marvels, with over 80% of the dishes on its menu made from local produce. The dishes you’ll get to sample here are ‘modern Singapore’ in nature, with innovative spins on local flavours and staples. The restaurant’s lunch menu includes elevated takes on beloved local dishes, such as roti prata (South Indian flatbread) garnished with black truffle and otak otak (spicy fish paste grilled in banana leaf) made with sea urchin instead of mackerel.