Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/a-foodies-guide-to-the-west/

Title: A foodie's guide to the west

While the west of Singapore may sometimes get a rep for being far from the bustle of the city centre—taking approximately 30 minutes to an hour via public transport—the myriad food options you’ll find there make it well worth a visit.

From Halal eats to hip cafes and hawker centres, here’s a guide to popular dining spots in neighbourhoods across Singapore’s West side.

Muslim travellers looking for Halal eats, thrilling itineraries or places of worship should check out the Muslim Visitor’s Guide—Download your copy here.

Holland Village

Start your gastronomic journey in the charming neighbourhood of Holland Village, where you’ll find rows of charming shophouses and a variety of food options. Tuck into delicious vegetarian Mediterranean cuisine at Original Sin at Chip Bee Gardens—choose from a wide range of salads, traditional Middle Eastern Mezze sharing platters and all the falafel you can eat.

Then, make your way to Sunday Folks (brought to you by the folks behind local favourite ice cream and sorbet chain Creamier) to satisfy your sweet tooth. We’re talking handcrafted soft-serve ice cream creations that are truly Instagram-worthy, in an array of flavours such as roasted pistachio, Madagascan vanilla, and good old dark chocolate.

Bukit Timah

Located near Botanic Gardens MRT station, Atlas Coffee House has become a beacon for pancake-lovers, with their signature pancakes that are highly lauded by local food critics. There are savoury delights on the menu too, such as cereal prawn pasta and summer chicken stew.

For authentic Singaporean comfort food, head to My Cosy Corner at Coronation Plaza. Tuck into their classic local dishes such as kueh pie tee (a Peranakan snack of deep fried pastry cups filled with shredded turnip and prawn) and their famous and vegetarian-friendly popiah (spring rolls), which they’ve been serving since 1998.

Or, head to Adam Road Food Centre for delicious Halal local fare. Try rojak (spicy Indian salad) from Adam’s Indian Rojak, mutton broth with chunks of tender meat and rich soup at Bahrakath Mutton Soup King, or tuck into hearty nasi lemak (fragrant rice dish cooked in coconut milk and pandan leaf, accompanied with an array of side dishes like omelette, fried fish and anchovies) from one of the many nasi lemak stalls there.

Buona Vista

Swing by urban food hall Timbre+ at night and be greeted with live music, bustling crowds and casual specialty food. Gourmet highlights at this gastropark include a range of flavours from across the globe, from Filipino street food and burgers to Thai delicacies and scrumptious Japanese rice bowls. If you’re hankering for Western comfort food with a twist, drop by DewGather Coffee House at The Star Vista. This charming café servers up a range of Western comfort food like fried chicken and waffles and French toast.

Clementi

Known for its delicious, Halal-certified chicken rice, Evertop Hainanese Boneless Chicken Rice has a handful of outlets islandwide, making it one of the more well-known chicken rice eateries in the city. Head to the one at Clementi Avenue 2 for an authentic taste of Singaporean fare within the heartlands. For more hawker fare, make a beeline for Clementi 448 Food Centre—popular dishes here include fried carrot cake and curry puff (opt for the classic filling with potato and curry chicken!). You’ll find these dishes at stores #01-45, #01-31 respectively. A diverse range of eats can also be found at Clementi Mall—including dim sum at Crystal Jade, nasi lemak at the Halal-certified Crave and oodles of noodles at Ramen Ichiro.

Boon Lay