Link: https://nerdnomads.com/singapore-botanic-gardens#respond

Title: A Garden Of Eden In The Concrete Jungle – Singapore Botanic Gardens

After a couple of days of walking around the busy and urban streets of Singapore city, we needed a green break and some nature and fresh air, so we headed to the Singapore Botanic Gardens. It was so relaxing and peaceful to wander around the big garden, among huge trees, big lawns, small lakes and an ocean of beautiful orchids! Just what we needed!

The Singapore Botanic Gardens, dated back to 1859, is pretty big (740 000 m²) and is divided into different sections as you can see on the map below:

The garden is open from 5 in the morning to midnight and is the only botanic garden in the world that has this long opening hours every day the whole year around. It is also free to enter, except for the Orchid Garden.

Attractions in the Singapore Botanic Gardens

Rainforest

The Botanic Gardens has a small tropical rainforest which is older than the gardens themselves. Singapore is one of the only two major cities in the world with a tropical rainforest within its city limits, the other being Tijuca Forest in Rio de Janeiro.

Evolution Garden

Located within the Central Core area of the Gardens, is the “Evolution Garden” which tells the story of plant life on Earth throughout the ages. Very interesting and educational!

Ginger Garden

Located next to the National Orchid Garden, this garden houses a restaurant called Halia Restaurant and a waterfall. It is one of the newer parts of the garden, opened in 2003.

The Lakes

Botanic Garden has three lakes; Symphony Lake, Eco Lake and Swan Lake.

In the middle of the Symphony lake there is a big arrow on a rock, with quite a story. The stone has been there since 1914, and this was the place where a temporary station for observing the Earth`s magnetism was located. Wow, pretty cool if you ask me! The arrow actually points towards Greenwich in London, as this is where the Prime Meridian is located.

National Orchid Garden

This part of the garden was the most beautiful and spectacular part of the Botanical Garden in my opinion. Well worth a visit, even though you have to pay to get in, as you will find an impressive collection of exotic orchids in colourful bloom. I loved it, it was soooo beautiful! I have to admit though, I simply LOVE orchids! Our apartment at home has plenty of them. 🙂

Here are some pictures from the National Orchid Garden:

A Strange Palm Tree

This tree (“palm” below) was in bloom while we visited the gardens (the big white “stuff” on the top of the tree is apparently it`s flower….). And according to the people who were experts on this, this tree does not bloom very often. Decades pass between each time it blooms!! Wow!

So all the guided tour groups stopped at this tree to admire it. Well, it`s flower is not THAT impressive in my opinion. I liked the orchids better. 🙂

Our walk through the Botanic Gardens in Singapore was nice and peaceful, we really enjoyed it! The Orchid Garden was the best part, with an incredible collection of beautiful orchids in all kinds of colors, sizes, and variations. Loved it! 🙂

Where To Stay In Singapore

There is no getting around that Singapore is a pretty expensive city when it comes to accommodation. But on the plus side, the hotel standard is very high, and there are some genuinely wonderful hotels here. Below are some of our favorites hotels at different price ranges.

Top End

Fullerton Hotel

The Fullerton is widely regarded as Singapore's most luxurious hotel. While the Raffles hotel is under renovation, the Fullerton Bay Hotel is the best choice for old-school five-star colonial-style luxury and world-class service.

If it is within your budget, staying here is an experience in itself. The 25m rooftop swimming pool overlooking Marina Bay is truly spectacular!

Click for the latest prices

Hotel Fort Canning

We loved the peaceful park surrounding Hotel Fort Canning. The hotel has two large swimming pools. Our awesome room at Hotel Fort Canning

Surrounded by the green and peaceful Fort Canning Park this beautifully restored old colonial fort-made heritage boutique hotel is a quiet oasis in the heart of the city. The rooms are large and beautiful with high ceilings, hardwood floors, and super comfortable beds. We loved the spacious bathroom with its stylish bathtub.

There are two large swimming pools and a well-equipped gym. It has a very central location, within walking distance to both the main shopping street Orchard Road and the Colonial District with all the main museums and sights.

Click for the latest prices

Parkroyal on Pickering

Parkroyal on Pickering Hotel is eco-friendly Our beautiful and huge room at Parkroyal on Pickering

Parkroyal on Pickering is something as rare as an eco-conscious five-star hotel. It shows through in everything from the small touches like the daily refilled glass water bottles to pens made of bamboo to the architectural marvel of the green hanging terraces that decorate its facade.

The rooms are modern, spacious, and very comfortable. The view of the Singapore Skyline from the room and also the bathtub is amazing! There is an infinity pool as well as a well-equipped gym. The breakfast buffet is spectacular, and the location is excellent with both the Chinatown MRT Station and the Clarke Quay MRT Station very close by.

Click for the latest prices

Mid Range

Jen Orchardgateway

Jen Orchardgateway has one of the best swimming pools in Singapore. Chech the panoramic city view! Our cozy room at Jen Orchardgateway Hotel

If you want a modern, comfortable hotel that is close to the shopping along Orchard Road, then look no further. Jen Orchardgateway is it! Occupying the top floors of the Orchard Gateway mall the location just simply can’t be beaten. The rooms are very comfortable, but the real standout is the enormous infinity rooftop swimming pool with its spectacular evening views of the city. We also loved the room service robot (yes, indeed a robot!) 🙂

Click for the latest prices

AMOY by Far East Hospitality

If you are looking for something unique, then the Amoy Hotel might just fit the bill. This renovated old temple building at the edge of Chinatown has become a world-class boutique hotel.

Every room is unique, and the old building creates a special and cozy atmosphere.

Our room at Amoy Hotel Cozy rooms at Amoy Hotel

The staff is always friendly and helpful. There is an MRT station, Telok Ayer MRT Station (blue Downtown Line), right across the street, and there are plenty of restaurants and cafes around.

Click for the latest prices

Budget

Lloyds Inn

Located in a quiet residential neighborhood only a few minutes walk from the main shopping street of Singapore, Orchard Road, Lloyd’s Inn has a perfect central location and is excellent value for the money.

The rooms are small but stylish and well decorated like out of an Ikea catalog with some unique touches. Our room had a fantastic open-air shower. It is worth paying a little extra for a garden-facing room.

The garden is beautiful and contains a lovely wading pool and resting area. Breakfast is served in a local Kopitiam (coffee shop), Killiney Kopitiam, on the adjacent road, Killiney Road. This road has plenty of affordable restaurants serving everything from Vietnamese to Indian food.

Click for the latest prices



Hotel G

Hotel G was a positive surprise to us! While the rooms are tiny, the standard is excellent for the price with clean, modern, and comfortable rooms with flat-screen TVs and private bathrooms with rainwater showers. Loved the hipster-like design.

We opted for a slightly larger room since we were traveling with a lot of luggage and we were extremely comfortable.

Downstairs is a classy and cool wine bar, and the burger bar "Twenty Five Degrees" on the corner serves some of the best burgers in Singapore. Try the truffle chips, they are heavenly!

Click for the latest prices

⇒ Click here to read our complete guide on Where To Stay In Singapore, with tips on how to find the best hotel and area to stay in for you

PIN IT FOR LATER!

Hoover over the picture below, and press the green PIN IT button that pops up:

Have you been to the Botanic Gardens in Singapore? Or any other Botanic Gardens somewhere in the world? What is your favourite flower? Please leave a comment in the comment area below! Thank you! 🙂