Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/a-guide-to-kid-friendly-experiences-in-sentosa/

Title: A guide to kid-friendly experiences in Sentosa

An island resort for the young and the young at heart alike, Sentosa is a beloved haunt for thrill-seekers, lovers of novel attraction and beach-goers looking to soak up the sun.

If you’re travelling in Singapore with your loved ones, this sunny stomping ground is the perfect place to bring your kids for endless family fun. Here’s our guide to kid-family experiences on Sentosa.

S.E.A. Aquarium™

Nothing evokes wonder quite like an 8.3-metre-tall aquarium—we’re talking about the Open Ocean exhibit that’s the centrepiece of the S.E.A. Aquarium™. One of the world’s largest aquariums, this aquatic sanctuary is home to over 100,000 marine animals of over 1,000 species, spread across 40 distinct habitats. The aquarium boasts eight distinct zones populated by enthralling creatures of the deep. Learn about the diversity of underwater ecosystems at the Discovery Pool, or see how many different species you and your child can spot at the School of Fish. Sentosa Island. 8 Sentosa Gateway, Singapore 098269.

Trick Eye Museum

The Trick Eye Museum promises an experience that’s bound to delight adults and children alike. The artwork on display here will boggle the mind with clever optical illusions that’ll give the impression that you’re scaling sheer, icy cliffs, riding elephants or fleeing from monstrous piranhas.

The majority of artwork on display here has been specially created for Singapore, and not seen in other Trick Eye Museums overseas. Get your cameras ready for myriad photo-op moments, as you strike a pose with the many works of art that are interweaved with optical illusions.

Trick Eye Museum at Resorts World™ Sentosa. 26 Sentosa Gateway #01-43/44, Singapore 098138.

Skyline Luge Sentosa

The journey to the Skyline Luge Sentosa is an adventure in itself, as you and your little ones take the Skyride chairlift to the top of the Luge track, where a stunning view of Sentosa awaits. You’re in for a unique go-karting experience once you’ve reached the top. Board your Luge and navigate over 600 metres worth of trails at whatever speed you fancy—go daringly fast or cruise along at a leisurely pace. Take note that children must be at least 6 years old and 110 centimetres tall to ride the Luge alone. Kids who don’t meet the height requirement won’t have to miss out—they can ride the Luge in tandem with an adult with the purchase of a child doubling ticket. Skyline Luge Sentosa. 45 Siloso Beach Walk, between Imbiah Lookout and Siloso Beach, Singapore 099003.



Universal Studios Singapore

The magic of Hollywood comes to life at Universal Studios Singapore (USS), a theme park filled with adrenaline-pumping rides, immersive live entertainment and a wide variety of attractions based on some of your favourite movie characters. Revisit childhood with your loved ones as you explore six distinct zones, from science-fiction worlds to the Jurassic era and ancient Egypt. We recommend visiting Far Far Away, modelled after the iconic world from the Shrek movie series. Check out shows like the Shrek 4-D Adventure—a multisensory adventure of sight, sound, touch and smell—or soar high on the Enchanted Airways, a junior roller coaster that soars over the canopies of the forest. Universal Studios Singapore. 8 Sentosa Gateway, Singapore 098269.



Adventure Cove Waterpark

Aquatic adventures and adrenaline rushes await you at Adventure Cove Waterpark, home to thrilling rides and close encounters with fascinating creatures of the sea. The waterpark is home to 13 rides for visiting families of all persuasions. Frolic at Bluewater Bay, pit yourself in a dose of friendly competition aboard the Dueling Racer or experience the thrills and spills of the Pipeline Plunge. If you’re looking for more relaxing activities, you can drift down Adventure River—admiring the grotto cave and jungle garden—or bring your kids on an up close encounter with dolphins and rays. Adventure Cove Waterpark. 8 Sentosa Gateway, near the Marine Life Park, Singapore 098269.

Wings of Time

Lasers, pyrotechnics, giant water jets and a majestic score take you on a journey through space and time—it’s all part of Wings of Time, a stunning multimedia spectacle held on the waters off Sentosa. Let your kids’ imaginations run wild as they follow the adventures of Rachel and Felix, two children who travel through time with the help of a mythical bird-like creature called Shahbaz. Wings of Time Theatre at Sentosa. Beach View, Singapore 099538. +65 6377 9688.

HydroDash