Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/a-guide-to-kid-friendly-experiences-in-orchard-road/

Title: A guide to kid-friendly experiences in Orchard Road

Sure, Orchard Road is home to dozens of malls, restaurants, and bars, but Singapore’s premier shopping belt is also bursting with indoor playgrounds, toy shops, and family-friendly attractions. Here are just a few of them.

Amazonia

Don’t be fooled by its unassuming entrance—this jungle gym is huge. Amazonia has mazes, slides, suspension bridges and every obstacle you can imagine that’ll keep your pint-sized thrill-seekers busy for hours. The centrepiece of the playground is a ten-metre-tall climbing labyrinth, filled with nets and trampolines for your kids to pretend to be Spider-Man for a day.

While the main play area is suitable for kids aged three to 12, Amazonia has a separate area meant for toddlers: it’s filled with all manner of toys and a ball pit. A bistro attached to the venue lets parents grab a quick cuppa. If you prefer to have some hands-on fun with the kids, check out the two play rooms—you can play a round of miniature golf or shoot foam balls at glow-in-the-dark targets.

Great World City Mall. 1 Kim Seng Promenade #03-08, Singapore 237994. +65 6836 2544.

Daily 10am-8pm.

Singapore Botanic Gardens

The city’s grandest park was conferred the title of UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2015. And if you ask us, it’s been a long time coming. This wide swathe of green in the heart of Singapore is a breath-taking example of just how diverse and colourful tropical flora can be. Ferns, trees and plants of all shapes and sizes border several ponds (with swans, no less) and walking trails for the young ones to explore. Did we also mention the Gardens is the perfect picnic spot? While the park is great for a few hours of free and easy time, you should sign the children up for a guided tour if you have a couple more hours to spare. The Flower Trail gives them the chance to learn more about flowering plants, and the Rainforest Trek lets them roam a six-hectare jungle that’s home to more than 300 species of plants, many of which are endangered. Venture further north to the Jacob Ballas Children’s Garden, and you’ll find installations, suspension bridges, a farm and activities that will keep the kids enthralled for hours. Singapore Botanic Gardens. 1 Cluny Road, Singapore 259569. +65 1800 471 7300.

Daily 5am-midnight.

The Better Toy Store

You won’t find run-of-the-mill toys and games here. High-quality, educational and downright gorgeous objects line the shelves of The Better Toy Store. There are ride-on vehicles that look better than the real deal, adorable plush toys modelled after food, too-cute animal hand puppets and colourful puzzles, among plenty more. We won’t blame you if you bring home one of the magical snow globes or music boxes on sale.

Tanglin Mall. 163 Tanglin Road #01-11/12, Singapore 247933. +65 6836 2450.

Daily 9.30am-8.30pm.

BOUNCE Singapore