Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/a-guide-to-kid-friendly-experiences-in-marina-bay/

Title: A guide to kid-friendly experiences in Marina Bay

Visiting Singapore with the whole clan? You’ll want to check out these family-friendly places that will keep both the kids and grown-ups entertained.

National Gallery Singapore

If you need proof that even the little ones can appreciate art, this is it. At the Keppel Centre for Art Education, housed in the National Gallery Singapore, let the kids roam around immersive spaces where they can touch, feel and play with the exhibits.

They won’t have to stand still and stare at artworks on the wall here—the museum boasts a range of hands-on learning experiences, from interactive playscapes to museum workshops that’ll teach your little ones the basics of print-making and pottery.

National Gallery Singapore. 1 Saint Andrew’s Road, Singapore 178957.

Mon-Thu, Sat & Sun 10am-7pm; Fri 10am-9pm.



ArtScience Museum™

Stomp around in a room full of virtual flowers, play with glowing spheres, or lose yourself in a galaxy made of crystals at Future World, a visually stunning exhibition at the ArtScience Museum™. Japanese design collective, teamLab, created these dazzling installations by bringing together cutting-edge technology, an artist’s instinct and a child-like fascination with the world. ArtScience Museum. 6 Bayfront Avenue, Singapore 018974.

Daily 10am-7pm.

More information of exhibition can be found here.

Saint Pierre

Forget soggy hot dogs and fish fingers—at Saint Pierre, a fancy French restaurant helmed by celebrity chef Emmanuel Stroobant, the kids’ menu is as painstakingly put together as the ones for their parents.

The meal delivers as fine dining panache as those meant for grown-ups. Courses include avocado with lily bulb and amera tomato, Hokkaido hairy crab with corn and lemongrass, and a kaya and raspberry millefeuille for dessert.

One Fullerton. 1 Fullerton Road #02-02B, Singapore 049213. +65 6438 0887.

Tue-Sat 11.30am-3pm, 6.30-11pm.

Far East Organization Children’s Garden

Pack your towels, sunblock and swimwear—Far East Organization Children's Garden, an outdoor playground nestled in Gardens by the Bay is all about getting everyone drenched. Unleash the tykes on the water tunnels, stepping springs and aqua jets, some of which are equipped with motion sensors that detect movement to create a mini fountain show. There’s even a toddler play zone meant for tots up to five years old. When you’re done splashing around, also check out the two rainforest tree houses in the garden. They rise up four and seven-and-a-half metres, respectively, and together they form a nature trail that takes you through the canopies. Gardens by the Bay. 18 Marina Gardens Drive, Singapore 018953.

Tue-Fri 10am-7pm; Sat & Sun 9am-9pm.

Admission is free.

Blue House Infant and Toddler Atelier

Exploring the city can be exhausting for toddlers, so perk them up at this indoor playground designed with three-month-olds to three-year-olds in mind. You can pop by for a two-hour drop-in session, during which your child can play with toys that flex their imagination and creative muscles (in other words, “open-ended toys”).

But it’s not just for fun and games—Blue House promises an educational experience centred around the belief that creativity in children can be ignited by asking the simple question, “What if?”

UE Square. 83 Clemenceau Avenue #01-35/36, Singapore 239920. +65 6235 2126.

Mon-Sat 9am-5pm.

Visit here for pricing information.

Marina Barrage