Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/travel-guide-tips/getting-around/accessibility/

Title: Accessibility—Navigating Singapore with ease

One of Southeast Asia’s most modern cities, Singapore’s urbanity makes it accessible to travellers from all walks of life. If you’re travelling with an elderly member of the family or a loved one with a disability, this guide will bring you through all you need to know about navigating our city.



Travelling around

Trains

With over 119 stations linking most of the island, Singapore’s Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) system is one of the most convenient ways to get around.

All existing MRT stations have at least one barrier-free route, ramps and lifts, as well as wheelchair-accessible toilets and wider fare gates. Each train has two wheelchair-accessible carriages, which are demarcated with stickers on the platform screen door and platform floor.

Visually-impaired commuters can use the Braille plates in station elevators and the tactile paving on the ground to navigate from MRT entrance to platform. Station names and instructions for transfer are announced at every train stop.

The Deaf will be able to check for arrival times and destinations at the various screens located around the train platform. All platform doors are also installed with flashing red lights, to indicate when the doors are closing.

If you need to take medication with water while at the station, be sure to contact the ground staff, who’ll be happy to make special arrangements.

Buses

Currently, over 85% of Singapore’s buses are wheelchair-accessible, with plans to make all buses in Singapore wheelchair accessible by 2020.

These buses can be identified by the blue decals at the front of the bus. Bus captains are also trained to assist with boarding and alighting, and every bus has designated priority seats for pregnant women and the elderly.

Taxis

If you’re travelling with a wheelchair, most cab drivers in Singapore will be happy to assist you in storing it in their car boots. Users of motorised wheelchairs can book transport services with a number of organisations, including Caring Fleet and Silveray.

Local ride-hailing app Grab also provides a service called Grab Assist, which offers additional assistance to seniors and wheelchair-bound travellers. The app is available on both Apple's App Store and Google Play Store.

Service Animals

Service animals and guide dogs are allowed on both buses and trains in Singapore, and are legally allowed in food establishments, shopping malls and other public spaces.

Do remember to check with your airline for details on whether your animal companion will be able to travel with you on the plane or in cargo.

Pedestrian facilities and buildings

Over 95% of pedestrian walkways, taxi stands and bus shelters in Singapore are barrier-free, providing ease of access to wheelchair users, the elderly and travellers with sensory impairment.



Accessible accommodation

Many of Singapore’s hotels are equipped with facilities like accessible rooms, roll-in showers and toilets equipped with grab bars.

Here’s a short list of accommodation with wheelchair-friendly premises. Do remember to call the hotel in advance if you have a specific request or enquiry.

Accessible attractions

From vibrant arts to verdant nature, Singapore is home to a range of attractions, accessible to visitors from all walks of life.

Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay

The Esplanade—Singapore’s centre for the performing arts—is a great place to catch a show by some of the city’s most talented thespians, musicians and artists.

The establishment’s performance venues are wheelchair and guide-dog friendly, and special seating arrangements can be made for visitors with visual impairment or limited mobility.

Gardens by the Bay

A lush green jewel in the heart of the Marina Bay District, Gardens by the Bay is home to myriad flora and fauna from all over the world.

Free shuttle services are available for all passengers in wheelchairs, and wheelchair rental is available at the Visitor Service Centre, Information Counter and Floral Fantasy from 9am-8pm daily.

Singapore Zoo

Home to over 300 species of animals housed in naturalistic habitats, the Singapore Zoo is an award-winning wildlife park that’s a must-visit for nature lovers.

Wheelchairs are available free of charge for visitors with limited mobility. Alternatively, electric scooters are available for rent at S$20 for the first three hours, and S$5 for each subsequent hour.

National Museum of Singapore

Singapore’s oldest museum is an intriguing repository of history and culture, where you can learn more about the Lion City through thought-provoking exhibits and showcases.

Wheelchairs are available free of charge for visitors with limited mobility, and the entire building is wheelchair-accessible. Sensory bags are also available at the visitor centre if the visitor has autism and would like additional support for sensory input.