Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/singapore-delicious-food-festivals/

Title: Annual food events in Singapore

With our traditional hawkers, world-class restaurants and Michelin-starred eateries, Singapore’s reputation as a food paradise is certainly well-deserved. As befitting of our globally renowned status, Singapore is also home to an exciting calendar of annual food-themed events, awards and festivals.

Sink your teeth into bold new culinary creations, historical hawker fare and a plethora of exciting new flavours, with our guide to the island’s most exciting events.

World Gourmet Summit

Month of event: March - November Celebrating the pinnacle of excellence in our local food scene, the World Gourmet Summit is a must-visit highlight for discerning aesthetes with a taste for fine dining. This star-studded event features a who’s who of restaurateurs, food celebrities and chefs. The festival’s various highlights evolve on a yearly basis, but typically include workshops, wine-tasting sessions and special menus at various fine dining restaurants. 2021’s World Gourmet Summit—which centres on the theme ‘Remastered’—marks the 25th edition of the festival, inviting visitors to explore a delightful confluence of past, present and future. Foodies can expect smorgasbord of events, ranging from forays into the world of American cheese to collaborations with beloved restaurants like béni and HolyCrab.

Singapore Cocktail Festival

Month of event: November To immerse yourself in the wondrous alchemy of cocktail making, and learn more about the craft, be sure to visit the Singapore Cocktail Festival. Raising the bar for alcohol appreciation since 2014, this star-studded event is a must-visit for alcohol aficionados. 2021’s edition—which centred on the theme of music—saw the event taking place all across the Lion City, with a City Takeover format that allowed visitors to soak in the atmosphere at bars all across town. Participants got to tickle their tastebuds with music-themed creations from 36 different bars, as well as participate in a range of bar crawls and delectable food pairings.

Singapore Food Festival

Month of event: August to September One of the most anticipated events on Singapore’s calendar, the Singapore Food Festival offers first-time visitors and returning foodies a multisensory feast of culinary experiences. Now in its 28th edition, the festival not only promises guests a tantalizing array of local and international dishes, but also a bevy of activities. These range from food tours and theatrical dining experiences to private chef dinners and industry symposiums. Line-ups tend to vary every year, which means that regular visitors can always expect something new. 2021’s edition of the festival—themed Savour Singapore in Every Bite—featured a line-up of over 50 tantalizing experiences, from food tours in some of Singapore’s most beloved neighbourhoods to live masterclasses that viewers could enjoy from the comfort of their living rooms.

Michelin star and Michelin Bib Gourmand awards