Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/art-in-the-city/

Title: Art in The Lion City

Street Art & Food Tour

Tour operator: Wok N’ Stroll

If you’re an art lover who also loves great food, this guided walk is tailored just for you, with curated food stops to accompany your hunt for street art. Navigate the streets and alleys of Little India and Kampong Gelam, as you discover inspiration and learn fascinating anecdotes about the history of each neighbourhood. While exploring the former, keep an eye out for colourful wall murals such as Traditional Trades of Little India by local artist Psyfool—The evocative piece depicts garland makers, parrot astrologers and dhobi (washermen) who settled in the area years ago. You’ll also gain insight into Singapore’s hawker culture, with a variety of local dishes, from rainbow-hued nonya* kueh (bite-sized snacks or desserts) to freshly fried vadai. Get ready to journey through a heady mix of sights, sounds and smells. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 8838 3571. *Nonya cuisine is also known as Peranakan (meaning "local born") cuisine. The cuisine comes from people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage.

Chinatown Street Art Walking Tour

Tour operator: Artwalk Singapore

Curated by artistically trained professionals, this mural hunting tour wends its way through the rich historic enclave of Chinatown, beginning at Chinatown Complex and concluding at the conservation shophouses of Telok Ayer. As you explore the lantern-festooned streets and byways of the district, you’ll uncover a range of artistic work that centres on the history and culture of Chinatown. Painted by local artists Belinda Low and Yip Yew Chong, these murals depict nostalgic illustrations of everyday life from a bygone era. Highlights include Welcome to Our World, in remembrance of the hardworking and resilient Samsui women who helped build our city, as well as a 40m-long tribute to early immigrants, painted on the walls of Singapore’s oldest Chinese temple. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 9005 6709.

Singapore Street Art Appreciation Tour with Painting Workshop

Tour operator: Let’s Go Tour

Venture into the byways and busy streets of Haji Lane, in search of psychedelic street art and multi-hued murals. Keep your eyes peeled for funky pop-art murals by multi-disciplinary artist Idris Johor and wacky futuristic paintings by graffiti writer Didier Jaba Mathieu. Uncover the best photo spots for your next Instagram snap as you learn about the talented artists that have livened up the area and the deeper meanings behind their works.

Unleash your creativity and artistic inspiration with a spray-painting session, and take home your very own artwork as a souvenir. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 9004 4332.

Colours of Katong Design Walk

Tour Operator: Travel Wander LLP

Art and beautiful architecture abound all across our city, and you’ll find a whole lot to uncover along the colourful streets of Katong-Joo Chiat. This three-and-a-half-hour tour will take you through some of the most neighbourhood’s most iconic landmarks, as you admire the intricate pattern of Peranakan tiles and snap selfies next to the pastel-hued houses along Koon Seng Road. To commemorate your visit, you’ll get to design and assemble your very own DIY pop-up card to take home as a memento. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 8714 3321.

Tiong Bahru Art Deco Treasures Walking Tour

Tour operator: Jane’s SG Tours