Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/mice/en/why-singapore/success-stories/asia-tech-x-singapore-2022/

Title: Asia Tech x Singapore 2022

Singapore’s largest tech event since border reopening facilitated critical conversations on the development of the digital economy and an inclusive digital society.

Asia’s flagship technology event Asia Tech x Singapore (ATxSG) returned from 31 May to 3 June 2022, convening leaders and decision-makers from across the global technological ecosystem to network, debate, and exchange ideas on the latest technologies that drive digital innovation and transformation across all segments of society.

As the largest tech event that Singapore has hosted since reopening its borders, ATxSG 2022 is testament to the country’s strong recovery and position as a Global-Asia node for business and MICE. Among the 16,600 attendees were representatives from the governments of Brazil, Estonia, Indonesia and the United States as well as top executives from renowned tech companies like Amazon Web Services, Google, Meta, Microsoft, and Zoom.

“Digital and tech brings many opportunities but also challenges. That impact is felt at the intersection of Tech and Governance, Tech and Businesses, and Tech and Society. This involves building a trusted digital environment, creating economic growth, seeding innovations, and tackling society’s pressing problems. It is therefore key to bring together thought leaders across these domains, to shape that shared digital future,” said Lew Chuen Hong, Chief Executive of Singapore’s Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA).

ATxSG 2022 was the event’s first-ever in-person edition, and was organised by the IMDA, Informa Tech and supported by the Singapore Tourism Board. IMDA hosted the apex event ATxSummit, an exclusive invite-only event featuring high-level discussions among global tech, business and government leaders, as well as the ATxAI conference focused on artificial intelligence. Both events were held at The Ritz Carlton, Millenia Singapore. Meanwhile, ATxEnterprise and ATxImpact, ATxSG’s segments for industry and start-ups respectively, were organised by Informa Tech at Singapore EXPO.