Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/places-to-see/sentosa/

Title: Attractions & Things To Do in Sentosa

With its pristine beaches, exciting attractions and tropical landscapes, Sentosa is sure to leave you spellbound.

Before it was known as Sentosa, this island just off Singapore’s southern coast was a British military fortress. After the Japanese Occupation in World War II, Singapore returned to British rule, and the island was renamed “Sentosa” which means “peace and tranquillity” in Malay.

Over the course of its remarkable history, Sentosa has transformed into a beloved island resort, best known for its tropical beaches, luxurious hotels and thrilling attractions.

Whether you’re looking for an adrenaline rush or a day of relaxing in the sun, Sentosa is bound to enchant and delight.

Realms of adventure and excitement

Avid explorers looking to discover the island’s varied charms and natural landscapes will be able to choose from a range of inspiring activities.

You can get your bearings from the three beaches that span Sentosa’s coastline.

Each beach holds its own unique charm: Siloso Beach is the island’s most bustling stretch, and home to various restaurants and attractions; Palawan Beach’s playgrounds, parks and lagoon are perfect for families, and Tanjong Beach is ideal for a tranquil getaway.

Nature lovers fascinated with Southeast Asia’s wealth of tropical flora and fauna can embark on a hands-on journey at Sentosa Nature Discovery. This nature trail begins at an interactive gallery—where visitors will get the chance to brush up their science skills—followed by a showcase of Sentosa’s teeming wildlife and heritage trees native to Singapore and Southeast Asia.

Drop by the S.E.A. Aquarium™ for a trip under the sea. One of the largest oceanariums on the planet, this attraction is home to more than 100,000 marine animals and creatures from the deep. A range of educational programmes makes this a perfect location for families looking to foster a love for learning and growth in their little ones.

To live out your dreams of rubbing shoulders with the rich and famous, pay a visit to Madame Tussauds Singapore. This world-famous wax museum is home to life-sized sculptures of some of the world’s most notable individuals, ranging from stars like Michael Jackson and Marilyn Monroe to political figures like Queen Elizabeth II and Barack Obama.

The museum is also home to a K-Wave Zone—filled with the likeness of Korean celebrities—and Asia’s first-ever 4D Marvel movie, featuring fan favourites like Thor and Spider-man.

Thrilling activities await

With various thrill-seeking attractions, Sentosa is an ideal destination for adrenaline lovers in search of a rush.

To live out your superhero fantasy, drop by iFly Singapore, the world’s largest wind tunnel for indoor skydiving. The 18-foot-tall acrylic ‘glass walls’ allow you to enjoy panoramic views of the South China Sea and Siloso Beach.

State-of-the-art technology will lend you wings in an experience that simulates free falls from heights of 12,000 to 3,000 feet. First timers need not fret, as trained professionals will be on hand to guide you.

For more high-octane activity, brave new heights at the Mega Adventure Park - Singapore. The park’s star attraction—dubbed the MegaZip—is Southeast Asia’s steepest zip wire. Those courageous enough to hop on this adrenaline-pumping ride will get to experience a whole new perspective of Sentosa's lush jungles and white beaches from 450 metres in the air.

Other activities include Mega Climb—a three-tiered obstacle that’ll have you pushing the limits of your bravery— and the bungy trampolines at Mega Bounce.

If a day of sun, sand and surf is up your alley, spend the afternoon at Hydrodash instead. Located along the waters of Palawan Beach, Singapore’s first floating aquapark is an unforgettable experience for the young and the young at heart.



Romp with your family and loved ones as you slide, slip and splash through the various zones of this massive inflatable obstacle course.

After all that fast-paced action, wind down and experience Sentosa and Faber Peak as you take a ride on the Cable Car Sky Network, and soak in a stunning bird’s-eye view of Sentosa island and Mount Faber. The last ride for the cable cars is at 8pm, so plan your visit accordingly!