Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/live-music-bars-in-singapore/

Title: Awesome live music bars in Singapore 2022

If you’re looking for a rollicking night of live tunes, ice-cold booze and opportunities to rub shoulders with fellow music lovers, you’re certainly in the right city. Singapore is home to a stalwart community of veteran musicians, budding local bands and soulful singers, many of whom showcase their talents at various live music bars and venues.

Whether you’re into the soulful strains of blues, the complex harmonies of jazz or infectious pop tunes, there’s bound to be a venue on this list that’ll get you grooving along to the music that you love.

Acid Bar

If Top 40s tunes and live acoustic music is your jam, be sure to spend an evening at Acid Bar. Nestled amidst the colourful shophouses and bustling watering holes of Emerald Hill, this establishment is a favourite haunt of local musicians and acoustic acts. The setlists here comprise mostly mellow acoustic numbers and covers of both classics and Top 40s hits, making it a great pitstop for those looking to kick back and relax after a long day of retail therapy. Do note that the venue’s live music acts are scheduled on Thursday to Sunday evenings, and plan your shopping spree accordingly! Peranakan Place. 180 Orchard Road, Singapore 238846. +65 6738 8828.



Blu Jaz Café

While you’ll certainly find jazz tunes aplenty, diversity is the name of the game at Blu Jaz Café. This three-storey venue is a stomping ground for veteran bands, jazz musicians and even the occasional stand-up comedy act or poetry slam.

Part of jazz’s charms lies in the thrill of discovery, and Blu Jaz Café has long been an incubator for promising musicians. Discover their talents for yourself by dropping by on for the café’s Sunday evening jam session. Held in the loft, this weekly affair features stalwarts of the scene improvising alongside bright young stars of our jazz scene.

If you’re a musician yourself, be sure to check out the monthly calendar for masterclasses from composers and famed instrumentalists alike.

Blu Jaz Café. 11 Bali Lane, Singapore 189848. +65 9003 6045.

Cuba Libre

Pair the sizzle of Latin American beats with inspired eats at this vibrant café and bar.

Besides Instagram-worthy mojitos, mouth-watering Mexican fare and a variety of tapas to tickle your tastebuds, this Cuban cantina is a great place for those looking to salsa the night away.

Book a table in the early evening for acoustic tunes, or rock out to reggaeton and bachata hits from resident band Adrenalina, who take the stage alongside DJ Boi Kay. The party goes on until the wee hours of the morning, so you’ll want to make sure you’re dressed to jive!

Cuba Libre. Block E #01-03/04 @ Clarke Quay The Circuit. Singapore 179024. +65 8418 0203

STAGE

Soulful acoustic pop take front and centre stage at this aptly-named bar and restaurant. Located along Prinsep Street, Stage boasts a range of Western fare—think steaks, pizzas and pastas—and an extensive menu of beer, whiskeys and liqueurs.

Live music performances start at 8pm nightly, featuring upcoming bands, music duos and veteran solo acts like Alex Hong and Second Sunrise.

If you’re planning to do your best Ariana Grande impression, you’ll want to mosey on by on Wednesday night, when the bar hosts its weekly open mic sessions. Be sure to sign up via their website before rocking out.

STAGE. 60 Prinsep St, Singapore 188664. +65 8347 8644

Timbre X S.E.A.

A legendary local music venue that’s been around for over three decades, Timbre has long been a stomping ground of some of our island’s most popular live acts.

While all three of the music group’s venues are worth visiting, we suggest first-time visitors drop by Timbre X S.E.A. Located along the Singapore River, this buzzing watering hole is easy to find—just follow the strains of live music.

Depending on the night you’re visiting, you’ll find yourself grooving to Mandopop hits from The Switch Gang, rocking out to classic rock and pop tunes by Reverie or serenaded by the enchanting vocals of 53A’s frontwoman Sara Wee.

Timbre X S.E.A. 1 Old Parliament Lane, The Arts House #01-04, Singapore 179429. +65 6336 3386.