Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/walking-tour/eat-drink/bars-in-fullerton-marina-bay/

Title: Bars in Fullerton and Marina Bay

Bars in Fullerton and Marina Bay

There’s no shortage of bars in Singapore, and the same can certainly be said for your options in the Marina Bay, Collyer Quay and Fullerton area.

Rooftop bars, sky-high watering holes, swish drinking spots—this precinct is replete with after-dark haunts that serve up solid cocktails and tasty bar grub.

All you need to know is where to go and what’s in store for you, so let this guide take you on a whirlwind adventure through the best places to drink by the bay.

All venues are near to Raffles Place, Bayfront and Downtown MRT stations

Fullerton & Collyer Quay

Gazetted as Singapore's 71st national monument, the iconic Fullerton Hotel is home to two stylish bars—the sleek 1 Post Bar and the breezy 2 Lighthouse Restaurant & Rooftop Bar.

The former, a grand spot that’s perfect for business meetings, makes heady Fullerton Slings (a collection of locally-inspired cocktails) that are best enjoyed in the bar’s lush alfresco setting, while the latter offers wine labels from around the world, delicious canapes (bite-sized food) and stunning views of the bay area.

Further down the street on One Fullerton Road, there’s 3 OverEasy. This all-American diner isn’t just known for its juicy burgers, but also its potent concoctions such as the refreshing Strawberry Fields Mojito (rum, strawberries, mint and basil), and the Coffee Boulevardier, made with coffee infused bourbon, Campari and vermouth.

Over in the Collyer Quay area, more rooftop drinking spots await. Hit up Japanese bar 4 Kinki for sake (Japanese rice wine) and sushi with a view, or bring your other half to 5 Lantern at The Fullerton Bay Hotel for a romantic night out, complete with Veuve Clicquot champagne and mini Wagyu beef sliders.

Stroll around a little and you'll wind up in Raffles Place. One of the cool bars worth visiting in this area includes the 6 1-Altitude Gallery, a rooftop bar perched 63-storeys high views of the city skyline.

Marina Bay

Over at Marina Bay Sands®, there’s 7 CÉ LA VI, standing 200 metres above ground. This upbeat rooftop establishment towers over the bay area, offering visitors unrivalled views and nightly DJ sets with heavy beats and feel-good tunes.

If you prefer something a little more down-tempo, the sophisticated bar 8 Adrift by David Myers, will indulge you in a wide selection of cocktails, wines and other delightful drink options.

Diagonally across from the Marina Bay Sands® is 9 LeVeL33. Dubbed the 'world's highest urban craft brewery', this sophisticated beer lounge features a range of freshly brewed lagers, ales, stouts, porters, and wheat beer. Opt for the outdoor seats for a breathtaking view of the city while you sip on your drink.