Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/walking-tour/eat-drink/bars-in-holland-village-dempsey-hill/

Title: Bars in Dempsey Hill and Holland Village

Away from the crowds

Not a fan of crazy crowds and uber-loud hangouts? Get away from it all and head to areas like Holland Village and Dempsey Hill.

These two popular hotspots are known for their laid-back vibes. Alongside fabulous restaurants and eateries, they’ve got great pubs, bars, breweries and wine houses to boot. Stroll around the two areas and you'll be sure to find something that tickles your fancy.

All venues are near to the Botanic Gardens and Holland Village MRT stations.

Holland Village

With the diverse range of bars in Holland Village, there’s definitely something for everyone. For live music and fantastic Happy Hour deals, there’s the long-standing 1 Wala Wala Cafe Bar. This two-storey venue has been around for the longest time. With their delicious bar grub and feel-good atmosphere, you can see why and how they’re a crowd favourite.

Going a little more international—if you want German creations paired with labels like Erdinger, visit spots like 2 Baden or 3 Starker Signature—two German joints located along the Lorong Mambong stretch.



Can’t say no to a burrito (wheat flour tortilla filled with various ingredients and wrapped in a roll)? Head to Mexican outlet 4 Cha Cha Cha for tasty bites like seafood tacos (wheat tortilla folded around a filling) and chicken enchiladas (corn tortilla rolled around a filling and covered with a chilli pepper sauce), then wash all that down with a frozen Margarita (a cocktail made with tequila and citrus fruit juice).

As for you vino lovers, you’ll want to hit up 5 Tangos—this casual bar is a perfect chill-out spot to enjoy your reds and whites while chowing down on light bites like spicy chicken wings.





Dempsey Hill

Dempsey’s bar scene features a melting pot of stylish hangouts and contemporary watering holes.

One of the latest additions to the bustling enclave is 6 The Rabbit Hole. Situated at the back of the main restaurant The White Rabbit, this beautiful garden bar specialises in gin concoctions, most of which are garnished with herbs from their very own backyard.

Craft beer enthusiasts, make your way to places such as 7 RedDot BrewHouse and the Thai-German 8 Tawadang Microbrewery for your fix of handcrafted ales, stouts, and lagers.

Other spots to check out include 9 Margaritas for their Mexican offerings (drinks aside, don’t forget to try their food—they make killer enchiladas), and 10 The Wine Company for some amazing red and white grape varieties from the world over.

Who says you need to be in the heart of town to have a good time? These great enclaves may be tucked away, but their bar scenes are certainly worth checking out.