Link: https://www.hellosingaporetours.com/blog/best-places-to-visit-on-a-singapore-airport-layover-tour

Title: Best Places to Visit on a Singapore Airport Layover Tour — Hello! Singapore Tours

Visit Marina Barrage

The dam was built to turn rivers into reservoirs. One of the main attractions of the Marina Barrage is the rooftop garden which offers stunning views of the city skyline and Marina Bay. The garden is also home to a solar park, which generates renewable energy for the building.

Since Singapore is committed to sustainability, the Marina Barrage is an amazing example of how a city can use infrastructure to address environmental issues while simultaneously producing a lovely and useful public place.



Esplanade & Merlion Park

Admire the unique design of the Esplanade—the theaters on the bay. Visit the rooftop of the Esplanade with your Hello! Singapore tour guide, and be amazed by the panoramic view of Marina Bay. No visit to Singapore is complete without a photo op with the iconic Merlion statue, a half-lion, half-fish creature that symbolizes Singapore's maritime heritage.



Gardens by the Bay

This iconic attraction features 18 supertrees, and towering vertical gardens that are a marvel of engineering and design. You can stroll through the gardens, take in the views from the OCBC Skyway, or visit the two climate-controlled conservatories, the Flower Dome and the Cloud Forest. If you are on a layover at night, you shouldn’t miss the chance to get a glimpse of the light show at Supertree Grove.

Raffles Hotel

Never miss the chance to stop by and admire the architecture of the Raffles Hotel. It is one of the iconic landmarks and the oldest hotel in Singapore. Learn why the hotel has undergone several renovations over the years, and retained its colonial-era charm and elegance. This is a popular destination because of its major contribution to Singapore's culture and history. Definitely a must-visit destination for anyone looking to experience luxury, history, and culture in Singapore.

Chinatown

Chinatown, one of Singapore's oldest and most recognizable neighborhoods, is situated in the city's center. It is a famous destination for all travelers because of it its bustling markets, colorful temples, and delicious local food. You can experience the city's numerous attractions, such as the lively street markets, the Chinatown Heritage Centre, and the Buddha Tooth Relic Temple. Once you visited this place, you will never leave empty-handed!

Make the most of your time on your layover by taking an airport layover tour in Singapore. It is a great way to break up a long journey and experience a new destination, even if you only have a few hours to spare.

Got questions? contact us and fill up the form below.