Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/nature-wildlife/fun-with-animals/bird-paradise/

Title: Bird Paradise

Nature lovers and other birds of a feather can flock together and indulge in their passion for the unique avian world at Bird Paradise.

With the closure of Jurong Bird Park, a fresh start awaits Bird Paradise when it opens its door to the public in 2023. The brand new bird park is located at Mandai Wildlife Reserve, an integrated wildlife destination which is also home to Singapore Zoo, Night Safari and River Wonders.

Highlights include eight walks through aviaries that reflect habitats from across the world, such as dense African rainforests, South American wetlands, Southeast Asian paddy fields, Australian dry eucalypt forests, and more.

If those details have gotten your heart aflutter, read on to learn more.

Birdwatching Bonanzas

With 3,500 feathery residents from more than 400 species, Bird Paradise more than lives up to its name.

You’ll get to meet the diverse denizens of the bird park across eight distinct, outdoor aviaries. These spectacular habitats have been designed not just for the viewing pleasure of visitors, but to simulate the home ecologies of the park’s inhabitants, from adorable penguins to mesmerizing songbirds.

Walk amid the rice terraces and bamboo forests of the Kuok Group Wings of Asia— home to rare birds like the Milky Stork — or discover forested valleys and dense rainforests in the Heart of Africa.

If you’re visiting with your little ones, Ocean Network Express Penguin Cove makes for the perfect pitstop. Designed to mimic the cool saltwater habitat of it denizens, Penguin Cove houses adorable penguin species like the Gentoo Penguin, King Penguin and Rockhopper Penguin.

Other multisensory marvels include Lory Loft, where visitors can entice multihued parrots to perch on their shoulders and Songs of the Forest, where you can hear the birdsong of Asian Fairy Bluebirds and Straw-headed Bulbuls.

Care and Conservation

While certainly a glorious destination for travellers and tourists, Bird Paradise is also at the forefront of avian conservation. Twenty four percent of the wildlife park’s species are categorised as threatened, the highest percentage under human care in a zoological park. This includes the Phillippines Eagles, Negros Bleeding-heart Doves, Blue-throated Macaws and many more.