Link: https://www.tallship.com.sg/events/catcruise/#page-top

Title: Cat Friendly Dinner Cruise

Inspired by strong demand from owners to let cats onboard, get ready for the world’s fur-st Cat Cruise – an exclusive Singapore attractions experience to sail-ebrate Singapore’s love for cats and the Cat aka Kucinta. Purr-fect Family Togetherness It’s time to experience the purr-fect Sunset Dinner Cruise with your beloved fur-baby and create family moments of togetherness that will be remembered fur-ever! Cat Cruise is Powered by Paw-pose Motivated by our love for cats, and wanting to build a brighter future for Singapore’s fur families, we want to help integrate cats into our human lifestyles so that cat owners can bond and share more experiences with their kitties.

The Ultimate Cat Luxury This extraordinary, feline-friendly dinner cruise puts your fur baby center stage, alongside your table, to indulge in a gourmet dinner (humans only), sunset sea views, mellow entertainment and fur-family togetherness. Cats and kitties get to experience the ultimate in cat luxury, their own designer private cabin with a guaranteed sea view.

Cat-Centric & Cat Friendly

With our cat-centric approach and after extensive consulting with leading cat experts and authorities including Vets, SPCA, The Cat People, and Cat Welfare Society, the Royal Albatross can now be considered as one of the most Cat-friendly places Singapore.

To ensure the best experience, we keep our kitties safe and comfortable, stimulated by amazing sea views and a cat playground in our Cat Lounge. Cats also receive a Cat Food Trial Pack from our partner PetCubes, containing a gourmet cat dinner that kitties can enjoy in the comfort of their own home and usual feeding routine. Cat paw-rents and cat loving guests can also learn new cat tips and skills from Cat Experts & Cat Masterclasses, to help them improve the lives and welfare of their fur babies and kitty-kids.

Book this paw-some experience NOW and make unfur-getable memories

In order to bring a cat onboard, you will need to fulfill our requirements. Download here.