Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/history/history-museums/childrens-museum/

Title: Children’s Museum Singapore

Located in the heart of the Civic District, the Children’s Museum Singapore is a place of learning and creativity.

Formerly the Singapore Philatelic Museum, this destination has been given a new lease on life, with a range of activities, exhibitions and immersive galleries dedicated to children from the age of 12 years and below.

Knowledge and play

Housed in a colonial bungalow that dates back to 1906, the two-storey space consists of a permanent exhibition on its first floor, with the second floor dedicated to special galleries and evolving exhibits.

Creativity and learning through play take centre stage at this charming museum, which strives to foster a sense of curiosity and exploration in its young patrons and their families.

A Voyage Back Through Time — the gallery’s permanent exhibition— is a time-travelling voyage that will take visitors from the pages of history back to the present, alongside museum mascot Wonderbot.

The exhibition is comprised of four distinct segments, with an immersive theatre show The Hidden Chamber, a hands-on adventure aboard Ahoy, Singapore, a trip through colonial-era Singapore at The Marketplace, and an exploration of the modern day with My Neighbourhood.

An evolving experience

The museum’s second floor is dedicated to three special galleries that evolve on an annual basis, making a return visit well worth the trip.

Explore the many ways that Singapore’s different communities celebrate birthdays at the Happy Birthday! Exhibition, discover a maze of nature-inspired paper sculptures at Imagine A Garden. Parents with toddlers and children aged two to four can romp and play with their little ones in the idyllic Play Pen.

From craft workshops to parent-child dances, the line-up of activities at Singapore’s first-ever museum for children is constantly evolving. Be sure to check out their website for the latest events.