Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/christmas-light-up/

Title: Christmas On A Great Street: Orchard Road Light Up

One of Singapore’s most popular precincts and a world-class lifestyle destination for avid shoppers and discerning visitors alike, Orchard Road’s buzzing atmosphere amps up as Christmas comes to town.

Now in its 39th year, Christmas on Great Street—an annual light-up that transforms Orchard Road into a festive wonderland—is slated to return in 2022, with bright lights, enchanting decorations, endless music, and holiday cheer galore.

Festive Fun and Dazzling Experiences

From 12 November 2022, the streets of Orchard Road will be illuminated by dazzling arches of lights and enchanting decorations.



Expect to get into a festive mood early this year—Visitors to Orchard Road should keep a lookout for a stunning dual-façade augmented reality projection on the walls of the Mandarin Gallery from 1 November 2022.

Additionally, Music in the Air will be bringing you carols and Christmas classics along the stretch from ION Orchard to Ngee Ann City, as well as outside Wheelock Place and Far East Shopping Centre. This year, visitors can also enjoy a special visual treat by scanning the key visuals on any of the 27 glass panels located along the entire stretch of Orchard Road between ION Orchard to Mandarin Gallery using the PopAR Live App.

Fret not if you find yourself occupied during the festive season—the lights, music and decoration linger until 2 January 2023, giving you ample time to soak in the festive mood.

Bringing Back the magic of the Great Christmas Village

As part of this year’s festivities, Christmas on A Great Street will be ushering in the festive cheer with the much-loved Great Christmas Village at Ngee Ann City Civic Plaza from 7 December 2022 onwards.

Romp up with your loved ones and enjoy the carnival with the carousel and festive rides at Hello Fun, or feed your social media and tummy with the delicious treats with Hello Food, featuring stalls such as VeganBurg, Speciality Thai Grills, Magnum and Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream.

If you’re hankering for live music and entertainment, Hello Music at the main stage in the Great Christmas Village is bound to have you dancing along to the tunes of musicians like Jack and Rai, Fyrdaus Macbeth and The Cold Cut Duo. Alternatively, drop by Hello Arts at Wisma Atria which boasts a range of inspiring installations and hands-on workshops like alcohol ink painting, tapestry weaving, clay modelling, and crafting.

Regardless of what you crave, this year’s Christmas on A Great Street is bound to be unforgettable fun for the entire family!

Eager to partake in the festive cheer? Be sure to download the Visit Singapore Travel Guide app (available on both App Store and Google Play) and check out our Traveller Essentials page. This handy app will help you get your bearings, navigate Singapore’s bustling streets and gain access to a wealth of maps and city guides.

