Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/christmas-wonderland/

Title: Christmas Wonderland in Gardens By The Bay

With stunning light displays, Santa Claus, tasty festive fare, carnival games, live performances, ‘snow’ in the tropics and more, Christmas Wonderland at Gardens by the Bay promises magical fun for the entire family.

The annual Christmas Wonderland is a must-see highlight of Singapore’s exciting year-end celebrations, and has brought bringing festive cheer to close to 5 million visitors of all ages since its debut in 2014.

The festival’s ninth edition takes place from 2 December 2022 to 1 January 2023. Visitors to this Yuletide wonderland will be able to immerse themselves in a plethora of exciting games, activities and unforgettable sights.

Illumination and Enchantment

Taking place on a massive fairground, Christmas Wonderland is home to unforgettable sights and Yule-themed extravaganzas.

This year, visitors will be able to explore six different festival zones, filled to the brim with exciting activities.

St. Nick’s Square—the fairground’s largest zone— is undoubtedly the highlight of the event.

Admire the stunning 21-metre tall Spalliera display—an Italian-made marvel that resembles an intricate crown this year and keep your eyes peeled for Santa, who’ll be standing by with the season’s greetings.

Be mesmerised by the 10m tall Whimsical Windmill at Gingerbread Grove and feast your eyes on the 250 candy-cane-shaped decorations surrounding it, or snap a selfie at the Walk of Lights, a 50-metre long tunnel illuminated by over 50,000 LED lights.

As part of the celebrations, Gardens by the Bay’s iconic SuperTrees will be holding a special festive edition of the Garden Rhapsody light and sound show, a spectacle that’s bound to enchant and captivate.

Fun for the entire family

Visitors joining in the fun with their families will find a whole range of carnival games and amusements to get them in the holiday mood.

The Games Village zone boasts a range of traditional carnival games and challenges, like Ring Toss, Pyramid Smash and High Striker, alongside fishing games and other activities.

For a magical ride of a lifetime, hop onboard the Venetian horse carousel, a double-storey marvel hand-painted by European craftsmen.

While it’s always sunny here in Singapore, you’ll be able to get in the festive mood at Merry Lane’s Snowland, which features an illuminated igloo and polar bears, and ‘snow’ in the tropics.

Be sure to keep an eye out for other charming displays in the vicinity, such as the Jolly Express, Poinsettia Castle and a Gingberbread House.



Feasts and Festive Shopping

Round off your visit with a spot of holiday shopping at the iconic Mistletoe Alley Market, an European-style outdoor market with an ecletic selection of festive huts selling an array of festive products and services. Official event merchandise is also available, which will make for great souvenirs.

If you’re feeling peckish after all that excitement, be sure to pop on by ELFresco, where you can feast on delectable festive bites from beloved F&B brands like Brewerkz, Burger & Lobster and Sofnade. You can also enjoy festive tipples from Hendrick’s and Penfolds.

Excited to join in the fun at Christmas Wonderland? Download the Visit Singapore Travel Guide app (available on the App Store or Google Play). This handy app will help you navigate Singapore’s bustling streets, get updates on latest events and provide recommendations on where to dine.