Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/things-to-do-in-changi/

Title: Coastal charms at Changi

Adventure awaits you the minute you step off the plane at Changi—Besides being home to one of the world’s best airports, this charming neighbourhood is filled with myriad activities for travellers of all stripes.

Over the decades, the district has evolved into a charming blend of old and new, home to lush nature, modern attractions like Jewel Changi Airport and an endless range of activities by the sea and off the coast.

Here’s our guide to getting the most out of your visit to Changi.

Experience nature amidst modernity

You don’t have to travel too far from our world-class airport to discover why Singapore is known as a ‘city in a garden’. Before making a beeline for your hotel, drop by Jewel Changi Airport, a modern-day marvel that’s home to breath-taking nature. Stroll through the Canopy Park and Petal Garden, and take a moment to admire the 40-metre HSBC Rain Vortex, the world’s tallest indoor waterfall. If you’re in the mood to indulge in a bout of shopping, Jewel Changi Airport is also home to a trove of international brands and local retail gems. Shopaholics can peruse fashionable threads from labels like Uniqlo and Zara, the latest kicks from Nike and adorable collectibles at the Pokémon Centre Singapore. Jewel Changi Airport. 78 Airport Boulevard, Singapore 819666.

Dine on seafood off the coast

For an unforgettable dining experience, make a reservation at Smith Marine Floating Restaurant. Just a 10-minute boat ride from Changi Point Ferry Terminal, Singapore’s first kelong (offshore platform) restaurant makes the perfect reprieve if you’re looking to get off the grid. Indulge in dishes like chilli crab, lala (clams) in garlic butter and crabmeat soup, all while enjoying spectacular sunset views. Pick-up at Changi Point Ferry Terminal. 51 Lorong Bekukong, Singapore 499172. +65 9792 7609.

Daily 10am-7pm. Reservations 3 days in advance are required.

Take a walk on the wild side

Travellers looking to explore a verdant tropical paradise should pay a visit to Pulau Ubin. Accessible via bumboat from Changi Point Ferry Terminal, this island sanctuary is home to rubber plantations, fish farms and the Chek Jawa Wetlands. The latter is one of Singapore’s richest ecosystems, home to natural habitats like seagrass lagoons, mangrove swamps and rocky beaches. While Pulau Ubin is easy enough to explore by bicycle or on foot, adventurous visitors can choose to uncover the island’s myriad charms via kayak, or spend a night beneath the stars at one of the island’s campsites. Changi Point Ferry Terminal. 51 Lorong Bekukong, Singapore 499172.

Feast on local fare

With a history that dates back to 1975, Changi Village Hawker Centre is an east-side institution among locals, who’re more than happy to journey across the island to indulge in a meal here. Nasi lemak (rice cooked in coconut milk, served with an array of side dishes) and ayam penyet (East Javanese fried chicken dish) are some of this hawker centre’s most popular offerings (as you’ll be able to tell from the snaking queues), but other delicious treats include the fare from Woon Woon Pek Beehoon, Ah Hwee BBQ Chicken Wings and Amigo Chicken Chop Hor Fun. After satisfying your taste buds, we suggest ambling down Changi Point Coastal Walk to enjoy the sea breeze. Changi Village Hawker Centre. 2 Changi Village Road, Singapore 500002.

Work up a sweat by the sea

Speaking of the breeze, adrenaline seekers looking for thrills and spills can spend the afternoon at Constant Wind Sea Sports Centre. Located along Changi Coastal Walk and facing the Singapore Strait, this establishment boasts a range of sea sports such as kayaking, sailing, and windsurfing. Grab your paddles, ride the waves, and enjoy sun, sand and sea. Constant Wind Sea Sports Centre. 11 Changi Coast Walk, Singapore 499740. +65 6445 5108.

Daily 9.30am-6pm.

Indulge in fusion flavours

Furnished with old-school knick-knacks and retro touches, The Coastal Settlement boasts an ambience that will transport you back in time.

This charming restaurant is famous for marrying Asian and Western flavours, with tantalising dishes including their Wagyu Beef and Mushroom Pizza, Chilli Crab and Eggs, and Spicy Tom Yum Spaghetti.

The restaurant’s alfresco dining area is nestled amidst lush greenery, making it a great option if you’re looking to kick back and enjoy a meal after a long day of sightseeing.

The Coastal Settlement. 200 Netheravon Road, Singapore 508529. +65 6475 0200. Mon-Fri 10.30am-11pm; Sat & Sun 8.30am-11pm.

Uncover hip hangouts