Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/crazy-rich-asians-singapore/

Title: Crazy Rich Adventures in Singapore

A contemporary romantic comedy set in Singapore, Crazy Rich Asians^ is based on the bestselling novel by Singapore-born author Kevin Kwan. With an all-star cast, the movie takes an engaging and hilarious look at what can happen when young love collides with old money.

As a global metropolis filled with a trove of lifestyle offerings, Singapore is the perfect destination to gain your own rewarding experiences. Take a page from Crazy Rich Asians, and enrich yourself with the wealth of activities the city has to offer through the eyes of its Singaporean cast.

Adventure into Peranakan Culture

Every street in Singapore has a story to tell, and the neighbourhood of Katong-Joo Chiat is a great place to collect new tales while travelling through the Lion City’s urban cityscape. Originally of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian descent, Singapore’s Peranakan* community has a rich, complex history, encapsulated in its food, architecture and handicraft. Local thespian Tan Kheng Hua, who appears in the film as Kerry Chu (Rachel Chu’s mother), had a first-hand taste of Peranakan culture when she explored the district. Follow in her footsteps and take a stroll through Joo Chiat’s streets, while admiring the Chinese Baroque architecture and beautifully-conserved shophouses, that are featured in the Crazy Rich Asians film. *The term is an Indonesian/Malay word that means “local born”, which generally refers to people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage.

Those looking for a deep dive into Peranakan culture should visit The Intan. A post-war terrace residence that’s since been converted into a museum by its owner Alvin Yapp, the establishment is a trove of Peranakan artefacts and antiques. Visits are by appointment only, so be sure to sign up here.

Embrace your artisanal side

If the passionate rigour of artisans inspires you, you’re certain to be enamoured with Singapore’s local community of designers, from its custodians of tradition to its innovative young entrepreneurs. To begin your foray into Singapore’s design scene—and to purchase the Asian-inspired fashion pieces such as those seen in the movie—pay a visit to Holland Village, a creative enclave and an incubator of Singapore lifestyle trends. Crazy Rich Asians cast member Janice Koh (who plays Felicity Young, the aunt of Nick Young) dropped by the neighbourhood for a bout of exploration into Singapore’s design culture. Indulge in a spot of window-shopping along Jalan Merah Saga, before making your way to Ong Shunmugam. The local fashion label takes its name from the combined Chinese and Indian surnames of its founder, Priscilla Shunmugam, and is famous for its modern spin on traditional Asian designs. For designs that combine contemporary with traditional, head to Choo Yilin—an award-winning jewellery purveyor based in Singapore. The emphasis on preserving Asian heritage over Anglo-Saxon designs is displayed through her jade designs and collections, which are crafted with utmost care and dedication.

Party in a city that never sleeps

If the scenes from Crazy Rich Asians aren’t proof enough, Singapore’s a great city to get your party on. With world-class bars and top-notch nightclubs, you’ll be able to indulge in intoxicating libations and dance from dusk till dawn. To take your party game to the highest levels, we suggest a visit to LAVO. Perched atop the 57th floor of Marina Bay Sands®, this Italian-American restaurant and bar fuses mouth-watering cuisine with live DJ sets and electronic dance music. Grab a drink, enjoy an unparalleled view of the city lights, and indulge in chef Ralph Scamardella’s iconic dishes, like the classic Chicken Parmigiano and the famous LAVO meatball.

Experience enchanting cocktails

A city that boasts some of the best bars and mixologists in Southeast Asia, Singapore is certainly a great place to indulge in a perfectly crafted tipple and expand your understanding of mixology. Crazy Rich Asians cast member and screen starlet Fiona Xie—who plays movie star Kitty Pong—was treated to some of the city’s finest libations, with visits to NATIVE and Smoke & Mirrors. The former is known for concoctions made from locally foraged ingredients and spirits sourced from across Asia, while the latter is famous for its imaginative, playful cocktails. These are just two of the many bars that are shaking up the cocktail scene in Singapore. Now that we’ve piqued your interest in the Crazy Rich Asians movie, click here for more information.

About the Movie

Directed by Jon M. Chu, Crazy Rich Asians follows New Yorker Rachel as she accompanies her long-time boyfriend, Nick, to his best friend’s wedding in Singapore, where she learns that Nick is not only the scion of one of the country’s wealthiest families but one of its most sought-after bachelors. Being on Nick’s arm puts a target on Rachel’s back, with jealous socialites and Nick’s own disapproving mother taking aim. It soon becomes clear that the only thing crazier than love is family—this funny and romantic story is sure to ring true for audiences everywhere.

Crazy Rich Asians stars Constance Wu, Henry Golding, Gemma Chan, Lisa Lu, and Awkwafina, with Ken Jeong and Michelle Yeoh; as well as Sonoya Mizuno, Chris Pang, Jimmy O. Yang, Ronny Chieng, Remy Hii, and Nico Santos. It is produced by Nina Jacobson, Brad Simpson, and John Penotti, with executive producers Tim Coddington, Kevin Kwan, Robert Friedland, and Sidney Kimmel. The screenplay is by Peter Chiarelli and Adele Lim, based on the novel Crazy Rich Asians, by Kevin Kwan. Music is by Brian Tyler. A Warner Bros. Pictures presentation, in association with SK Global and Starlight Culture, a Color Force/Ivanhoe Pictures/Electric Somewhere Production, a Jon M. Chu Film, Crazy Rich Asians is distributed worldwide by Warner Bros. Pictures, a Warner Entertainment Company.

