Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/mice/en/why-singapore/success-stories/deloitte-managenement-retreat/

Title: Deloitte Management Retreat Success Stories

Overview

The experience of working hard, followed by indulging in a post-work tipple while enjoying the sunset is exactly what Deloitte wanted to recreate when it took its management team out of the conference halls and onto the sunny seaside of Lazarus Island for its annual management meeting.



“One of the key criteria for Deloitte is making sure that we have our management meetings in iconic locations,” Mr Eugene Wee, Regional Managing Director, Deloitte Consulting SEA, shared. He added that with remote working keeping employees at home for the past year, it was all the more important to find a unique location to rejuvenate the staff.



With its beautiful beaches and idyllic waterfronts, Lazarus Island, which is located amongst the Southern Islands, was the perfect choice as it offered attendees the feel of being overseas, while still remaining in Singapore.



In late March 2021, 40 Deloitte partners attended in person, and 20 more in the region tuned in virtually. Attendees worked from a comfortable glass house in full view of the ocean, dined on the Royal Albatross ship on a sail around the Southern Islands, and wrapped up the day having drinks by the sunset.



It was no mean feat to turn the private island — one with limited F&B options and meeting facilities like audiovisual equipment — into a functioning business event destination. Sentosa Development Corporation rose to the challenge, and through an intensive event planning process, successfully staged the offshore event.



Securing safety both on and off shore

”The event organisers were very rigorous in the safety management aspect,” Mr Pua Wee Meng, Consumer Industry Leader, Deloitte Consulting SEA, said.

Indeed, safety was paramount, and safe distancing measures were implemented throughout the event. For example, in addition to using TraceTogether to check in, attendees were also split into two separate cohorts to board the ferry, Ms Jacqueline Low, Assistant Chief Executive, Sentosa Development Corporation, explained.

“At the meeting itself, the venue was laid out to ensure distance between the attendees and limit inter-mingling. Hand sanitisers were provided and microphones were cleaned regularly after each person spoke,” she added.

A collaborative effort between leisure partners