Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/singapore-shopping/design-orchard/

Title: Design Orchard

Located along the bustling streets of Orchard Road—Singapore’s premier shopping belt—Design Orchard is more than just a retail space.

Conceptualised by award-winning architecture firm WOHA Architects, this vibrant enclave brings the pulse of creativity and inspiration to the heart of the city.

The space fulfils a trinity of roles—creative incubator, vibrant events space and a dazzling showcase of some of Singapore’s most beloved brands, lauded designers and talented newcomers.

Take a step inside, and discover world-class designs proudly made in Singapore.

Inspired by design and technology

Located on the ground floor, the Singapore Fashion Council is the appointed operator of the Design Orchard Retail Showcase.

Whether you’re a discerning homeowner looking to spruce up your abode or a fashionista wanting to express your individuality through bold fashion statements, you’re bound to discover works of inspiring craftsmanship.

The space further offers a range of value-added services to enhance your shopping experience. From personalised shopping concierge to virtual shopping and flexible pickup options, Design Orchard is committed to providing customers with the highest level of service and convenience.

This naturalistic space showcases over 100 homegrown brands, ranging from skincare to furniture and fashion. Some of Singapore's retail brands have set up shop here, including lifestyle brand Photo Phactory, fashion retailer Reckless Erika and fine jewellery brand Foundation Jewellers.

Besides design labels, Design Orchard also offers a plethora of lifestyle services and food options. Visitors looking to shop for souvenirs can purchase fragrances from The Lab Fragrances or peruse a range of handcrafted scented candles and diffusers from Temple Candles.

Hub, home and enclave

If you’ve always wanted to gain insight into the craftsmanship and creativity that exemplifies design, stop by the second floor. Managed by the Singapore Fashion Council, The Cocoon Space is home to co-working facilities and creative spaces for some of Singapore’s brightest talents.

Be sure to check out the outdoor amphitheatre and the multitude of exciting activities that call it home, from dazzling displays of local jewellery to exhibitions where the worlds of fashion and food intertwine.

Conclude your visit by enjoying an invigorating cup of coffee from the rooftop café and take in the sights and sounds of the bustling Orchard Road.