Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/travel-guide-tips/about-singapore/city-in-nature/culture-and-heritage/

Title: Discover SG’s heritage and preserved culture

With temples nestled beneath the shadow of high-rise buildings, artisans honing their craft amidst the colourful shophouses of heritage districts and a Forbidden Hill where Malay kings once held court, Singapore’s distinctive culture owes much to its blend of tradition and modernity.

As you explore Singapore, take the opportunity to dive deep into our heritage, as you learn about our past, connect with our communities and learn about the culture of The Lion City.

Roots.Sg

If you’re looking to read up on Singapore’s rich culture and heritage while exploring, be sure to visit Roots.Sg. This one stop portal is an archive of knowledge on our city’s fascinating stories, customs and traditions, from the history of ancient temples to the intricacies of Malay poetic forms.

If you’re looking for ideas to spark your exploration, the portal also offers a range of heritage trails that’ll have you discovering the heritage of our districts and neighbourhoods.

Ah Huat in Chinatown

Be transported back in time on a theatrical jaunt through Chinatown with fictional time traveller Tan Ah Huat. This narrative-driven tour will take you on an unforgettable adventure through the district’s history, as you learn about hidden haunts, charming locales and the pioneers who forged our nation.

Little India Walking Tour: Journey of the Senses

The sights, sounds and smells of Little India come to life on this unforgettable adventure by Monster Day Tours. Learn about the intricacies of Hinduism at a beautiful temple, sample local delicacies and learn about the rich culture of this beloved district.

Fort Canning Revealed

Formerly the seat of Malay Kings and the command post of the British army during World War II, Fort Canning is replete with fascinating stories. Join a team of storytellers on a tour of this fascinating locale, and the many storied landmarks in its vicinity.

It’s A Wrap

Sate your appetite and your hunger for knowledgeable with this foray into the heritage of local cuisine. Set in the charming district of Tiong Bahru, this food tour delves into the origins of wrapped snacks, treats and delicacies from various cultures.

My Heart Beads For Peranakan