Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/walking-tour/eat-drink/drinking-clarke-quay-boat-quay/

Title: Drinking in Clarke Quay and Boat Quay

From iconic dance clubs to live music venues and rooftop bars, this ultimate guide to drinking and partying in both Clarke Quay and Boat Quay is a must-have for anyone looking for a boozy good time in the city.

All venues are near the Raffles Place and Clarke Quay MRT stations

Clarke Quay

Can’t turn down the chance to show off your moves on the dancefloor? Hit up the clubs in Singapore for an electrifying good time.

You can't miss ultra-popular venues like 1 F.Club x Attica SG—a stylish institution known for its amazing ladies' night deals. Lovers of R&B and chart-toppers, visit Level 1, but if you're more of a house, progressive, or trance type of person, then head to Level 2.

For even more watering holes where music is the real highlight, there are places like 2 Crazy Elephant and 3 Cuba Libre.

Crazy Elephant is an excellent spot for those who like live covers of rock and roll hits. There's a fun jam session that takes place every Sunday so if you're feeling brave, take the stage and show the audience what you've got.

Cuba Libre Café & Bar, on the other hand, is a favourite amongst Latin music fans. Dance the night away with music by resident live bands and DJs like Adrenalina and DJ Boi, and of course, don't forget to try signature cocktails like the Caipirinha and the Cuba Libre.

Boat Quay

Just around the corner from Clarke Quay is Boat Quay. Along with Circular Road, this stretch is lined with bars and nightclubs for just about any party animal.

The laid-back 4 Hero's is known to many as a live music and sports bar. Rock and roll is often played at this space (which is designed to look like something right out of an old Western flick) so you can sit back and enjoy the tunes, or watch football games on the big screen with your mates while throwing back a few cold beers.

If you prefer unwinding with a pint of beer, live music and good old-fashioned Irish cheer, you can drop by Molly Malone’s, Singapore’s first-ever Irish Pub.Can’t resist a knockout view? Head up to rooftop bar 5 Southbridge on Boat Quay for the perfect combination of fresh New Zealand Pacific oysters, Champagne, and pretty, unobstructed views of the city skyline.

With all these bars and clubs to visit, you will be spoiled for choice to party the night away in the city. If you want more options in the area and beyond, check out this guide to Singapore’s trendy drinking spots by Expat Living.