Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/where-to-shop-duty-free/

Title: Duty Free Shopping in Singapore

Besides being a shopping paradise, Singapore’s retail scene is home to a wealth of duty-free shopping opportunities.

Whether you’re looking to curate your own shopping experience, commemorate your visit with a souvenir or get a thoughtful gift for your loved ones, you’ll find a trove of wares to peruse—ranging from cosmetics and perfumes to liquor, watches and food. shoppers can indulge their passions and curate their own shopping experience. Or even get that thoughtful gift for your loved ones.

At the airport

THE SHILLA Duty Free At Changi Airport, you can browse through one of the largest collections of duty-free shops in Singapore. Head to THE SHILLA Duty Free for Asia Pacific’s widest range of cosmetics and perfumes, specially curated to fulfil your beauty needs. Indulge in your passion for beauty and skincare products, with over 140 international brands to choose from, including popular Korean cult labels. While you are at the store, spoil yourself with their in-house spa treatments that’ll keep you refreshed for the journey ahead. Terminal 3 is also home to SHILLA Loft, where you can find four luxury brands taking centre stage —Chanel, Dior, La Prairie, and SK-II. Enjoy a personalised skincare routine at their pampering lounges, expertly curated by the knowledgeable staff that choose the best products to bring out the best in you. Changi Airport is also home to tax-free shops like Gassan Watches, where you can buy branded timepieces from the likes of Cartier, Omega, Breitling to reflect your exquisite taste.

THE SHILLA Duty Free, Singapore Changi Airport. Airport Boulevard, Departure lounges of Terminals 1, 2, 3, 4.

Various opening hours, find out more here. Gassan Watches, Singapore Changi Airport. Airport Boulevard, Departure lounges of Terminal 1, 4.

Daily 24 hours.

At the cruise centre

DFS Singapore Before you set sail for our neighbouring islands, treat yourself to a wide array of products in our duty-free shops, conveniently located at HarbourFront and Tanah Merah ferry terminals. Shop in stores with designs inspired by traditional seafront buildings nestled among Singapore’s coastline, and choose from more than 150 brands, from global cosmetic labels like Lancome to premium whiskeys like Glenfiddich. The dizzying array of choices available at your fingertips will suit every budget and every taste. DFS Singapore operates at Singapore Cruise Centre @ Tanah Merah and Singapore Cruise Centre @ HarbourFront. Singapore Cruise Centre HarbourFront is right next door to VivoCity, our island’s largest shopping mall, and you can continue your shopping escapades with their extensive range of over 300 stores. Step into homegrown departmental store TANGS and peruse a spread of local and international products, including local jewellery label RISIS, threads from Calvin Klein and Anothersole shoes. DFS Singapore, Singapore Cruise Centre @ Tanah Merah. 50 Tanah Merah Ferry.

Daily 9am-9.30pm. DFS Singapore, Singapore Cruise Centre @ HarbourFront Centre. 1 Maritime Square #01-17/20, Singapore 099253.

Mon-Sun 9am-9.30pm.

In the heart of the city

You don’t have to leave the heart of the city to shop duty-free. DFS’ T Galleria— located in the heart of Orchard Road— carries over 700 brands, and is a wonderland of handbags, fragrances and spirits. Shopping here is indeed a relaxing experience—give yourself the VIP treatment with a beauty concierge for complimentary makeup and skincare treatments or lie on plush sofas to rest your aching feet after browsing their extensive offerings.

If you’re looking to take a breather, sip some tea at our homegrown café TWG Tea, found in T Galleria. Choose from over 800 unique blends of tea, before you continue your shopping experience at the many retail spaces that line Orchard Road. T Galleria. 25 Scotts Rd, Singapore 228220.

Daily 11am-8pm.