Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/eco-friendly-tours-singapore/

Title: Eco friendly tours Singapore

Photos featured may have been taken before COVID-19.

With the sheer amount of activities, attractions and unique experiences to have in Singapore, getting around to explore it all can be its own challenge.

If you’re looking to experience what our city has to offer while doing your part for our planet, then look no further. Our guide to sustainable tours in Singapore will have you uncovering new sights, while cutting down on your carbon footprint to boot.

Whether you’re hoofing it through the heart of the city or hiking through lush greenery, world-class safety measures abound across the island, which means you’ll be able to travel with complete peace of mind.

Big Bus Singapore Hop-on Hop-off Tour

Tour operator: Singapore DUCKtours Pte Ltd

Start with this classic open-top, double-decked bus tour! Feel the wind in your hair on this classic open-top, double-decked bus tour as you snap Instagram-worthy shots of Singapore’s cityscape and explore some of its most iconic neighbourhoods.

Besides being a fuss-free way to sample what our city has to offer, this charming way of getting around is certainly more eco-friendly than hiring a private car or hitching a ride in a cab.Routes include the Yellow Line- also the city route- which takes you through the heart of the city, with landmarks like Gardens by the Bay and the Marina Bay Sands®. There’s also the Red Line- or the heritage route- which will have you exploring the charming shophouses and cultural landmarks of neighbourhoods such as Chinatown, Little India, Kampong Gelam and Boat Quay. If you’re looking to streamline your exploration, you may want to download the Big Bus interactive app, which allows you to keep track of bus arrival times. City Sightseeing tour buses run from 9am-6pm daily, with each tour loop lasting approximately 45-60 minutes. Tickets start at S$37/adult. City Sightseeing tour buses run from 9am-6pm daily, with each tour loop lasting approximately 45-60 minutes. Tickets start at S$37/adult. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 6338 6877.

Adventures by Asian Detours

Looking to work up a sweat while exploring Singapore's verdant nature spots? The good folk at Asian Detours have got you covered. Explore the waters around our sunny island with an open sea kayaking tour that'll have paddling around the pristine waters of Pulau Ketam. If you're looking for a full-day adventure, opt for the Paddle to Pedal tour instead. This charming foray to the island sanctuary of Pulau Ubin will have you swapping between kayaking and cycling, as you explore the diverse ecosystems of the island, from mangroves to rocky beaches. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 6338 6877.

Bikes and Bites Food Tour

Tour Operator: Let’s Go Bike Singapore

Singapore's reputation as a paradise for foodies is well warranted, given the rich ethnic cuisine and culinary traditions you'll find here. If you're looking to take a nibble on the sheer amount of diverse dishes you'll find here, hop on the Bikes and Bites Tour. The veteran tour guides at Let's Go Bike Singapore will take you on a food odyssey to the beloved heritage districts of Kampong Gelam, Little India and Chinatown. Besides being a great way to work off the calories, cycling to these locations is a great way to explore our island while staying carbon emission-free. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 6338 6877.

Trishaw Uncle Guided Tour

Tour Operator: Trishaw Uncle Pte Ltd

Embark on a jaunt through history with the Trishaw Uncle Guided Tour, an experience that’s bound to tickle the fancy of history buffs and lovers of culture. Trishaws-or bicycles with sidecars-were a common sight in post-war Singapore, and this tour keeps the tradition alive, taking you through some of Singapore’s most iconic heritage precincts. Discover the scent of spices and multi-hued sights of Little India, the lantern-bedecked byways of Chinatown and the golden-domed Sultan Mosque in Kampong Gelam. Regardless of the adventure you choose, this is bound to be a ride to remember. For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 6337 7111.

Sentosa Segway Tour

Tour Operator: Gogreen Holdings Pte Ltd

One of Singapore's most popular destinations, Sentosa is replete with unforgettable experiences, from the adrenaline-pumping rides at Resorts World™ Sentosa to the pristine white sands of its three beaches. To explore this island resort in style, consider hopping on the Sentosa Segway Tour. Fun fact: these eco-friendly vehicles cause roughly fourteen times less carbon emissions than driving a car the same distance. This two-and-a-half-hour experience will have you cruising around the island on the back of a self-balancing transporter, as an experienced guide brings the islan's many stories to life. Learn about the history of Fort Siloso and its role during World War II, admire the scenic Siloso and Palawan Beach, and visit the Southernmost point of Continental Asia. Families should note that the tour has a minimum age requirement of 12 years old.

Marina Bay Night Tour

Tour Operator: Let’s Go Bike

Embark on a nocturnal adventure beneath the golden streetlights of the Lion City with the Marina Bay Night Tour by Let's Go Bike. This enchanting bicycle tour will have you exploring various districts around the city centre while enjoying the cool night breeze and the many charms of Singapore after dark. Beginner cyclists needn't fret, as the tour's guides have planned the trip with with ease and accessibility in mind. Admire the grandeur of our National Stadium, the old-school architecture of the Fullerton Hotel, and the tranquillity of Marina Barrage. Alternatively, tour operator Let's Go Bike also conducts a whole range of other themed tours-from excursions into the city's history to explorations of our city's culinary culture. The latter's a great way to have your cake and eat it too without having to fret about calorie counting. Tour fees include bicycle, safety lights and a helmet, so all you'll need to do is show up and have the time of your life! For online bookings, find out more here or call +65 9004 4332.

Monster Day Heritage Tour Series

Tour Operator: Monster Day Tours