Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/where-to-shop-electronics-singapore/

Title: Electronic Gadgets Shopping in Singapore

Singapore is a shoppers’ haven, but what if instead of the latest fashion, you’d rather shop for consumer tech? Innovation runs through our city’s veins, and tech-loving travellers will fit right in with digitally-savvy locals who go gaga over the latest gadgets.

From high-end technology to quick fixes, these are the best places in Singapore to shop for cool, new electronics.

For an experiential shopping spree—Funan

Formerly known as Funan DigitaLife Mall, this beloved stomping ground of gamers and tech geeks underwent a three-year transformation, and officially reopened in June 2019. Style meets substance at this newly spruced up mall—beyond its dynamic, industrial-chic design that foregrounds interactivity, you’ll find over 180 retail brands. If you’re looking to channel your inner Bruce Wayne and add to your hoard of handy gadgets, you’re bound to find a great purchase here. Check out Lenovo’s flagship store, invest in a DJI drone, and visit established local brands like “one-stop camera shop” TK Photo and GamePro, the latter of which hosts their own eSports tournaments. Besides shopping, check out the massive climbing wall and rooftop urban farm, or ride through the indoor cycling lane—a first for any mall in Singapore. Funan also has a range of convenient amenities like carpark facilities that let you reserve a parking spot in advance, and a 24-hour drive-through item collection service, equipped with a robotic arm. Funan. 107 North Bridge Rd, Singapore 179105.

Daily 10am-10pm.

For technology that inspires—Apple Orchard Road

Mac lovers, rejoice! Located in the heart of bustling Orchard Road, you can’t miss the iconic Apple store, with a stunning glass facade that optically blends into the surrounding street. Step past lush greenery along the entrance and head to The Avenue, which displays must-have products like iPhones, iPads, and Macs. The second floor is designed like a “modern day town square”, where you can consult Apple tech experts amid cosy cushioned seats and an indoor canopy of trees. If you’re looking to delve into new realms of creativity, the establishment also boasts a calendar of exciting workshops and free creative sessions, covering everything from photography composition to creating drum beats on Garage Band. Apple Orchard Road. 270 Orchard Rd, Singapore 238857. +1800 699 2824.

Daily 10am-10pm.

For midnight shopping sprees—Mustafa Centre

Looking for new gear that won’t break the bank? You can’t go wrong with Mustafa Centre. Open 24/7, this sprawling department store is located in the colourful enclave of Little India, making it ideal for a bout of late-night gadget hunting. This department store boasts a range of electronics from Xbox games to mobile phones and home theatre systems, and the price savings here are hard to beat. You can also count on the quality of the goods, with big brands including Swatch, Canon, and HP, and friendly staff who let you test out your potential (purchase). Mustafa Centre. 145 Syed Alwi Road, Singapore 207704. +65 6295 5855.

Daily 24 hours.

For stellar sound systems—The Adelphi

With its mix of established audio stores, The Adelphi is music to any audiophile’s ears.

You’ll find all sorts of equipment to elevate your listening experience—from top-quality speakers by Klipsch and Bose to state-of-the-art headphones and even surround-sound theatre systems.

Those looking to deepen their love of music with old-school hardware will find gems like digital-analogue-converters and turntables. Vinylicious Records—in the basement of the shopping mall—boasts a range of rare records, ranging from Swedish metal to ‘80s retro.

The Adelphi. 1 Coleman St, Singapore 179803. +65 6339 9179.

Daily 10am-10pm.

For aspiring photographers—Peninsula Shopping Centre

Shutterbugs will have a field day at Peninsula Shopping Centre and the neighbouring Excelsior Shopping Centre, with their diverse range of cameras and photography peripherals.

Choose from big brands like Nikon, Canon, and Sony, and accompanying accessories at SLR Revolution. If you’re looking for something a little more niche, boutique stores like Benphoto and The Camera Workshop sell a wide range of second-hand digital and film equipment.

Aspiring filmmakers should check out Ruby Photo for film, darkroom, and development tools, while those seeking inspiration can browse Riceball’s impressive collection of photography books.

Peninsula Shopping Centre. 3 Coleman St, Singapore 179804. +65 6416 1146.

Daily 8am-10pm.

For bargain hunters looking to haggle—Sim Lim Square

Into DIY tech and computer building? Sim Lim Square’s your go-to place to get both gadgets and hardware at bargain prices to build your dream set-up. As one of Singapore’s oldest electronics malls, the atmosphere at Sim Lim Square can get a little chaotic, but you’ll also find amazing deals on phone accessories, computer parts, and more. Tip: Buy from shops displaying the CASETrust logo for certified trustworthy retailers. And don’t forget to bargain! Sim Lim Square. 1 Rochor Canal Rd, Singapore 188504. +65 6338 3859.

Daily 9.30am-8pm.

For a diverse emporium of tech gadgets and solutions—Challenger