Link: https://www.hellosingaporetours.com/blog/hello-singapore-tours-essential-mobile-apps-in-singapore

Title: Essential Mobile Apps in Singapore — Hello! Singapore Tours

Leisure

Klook - For travel activities and tickets. Available on iOS and Android.

Meetup - For finding and building local communities. Available on iOS and Android.

Food and Drinks

OpenRice - For reservations and discounts. Available on iOS and Android.

Food Panda - For Home delivery. Available on iOS and Android.

Deliveroo - For Home delivery. Available on iOS and Android.

Burrple - A guide to the best eats in Singapore. Available in iOS and Android.



Transportation

Explore Singapore MRT Map - To help you plan your trip and helpful not get lost in the city. Available on iOS and Android.

Bus@SG - This can be used to know the estimated bus arrival time, updates on bus services, and the latest route information to help with journey planning. Available on iOS and Android.

Citymapper - A public transit app and mapping service which displays transport options, usually with live timing, between any two locations in the city. Available on iOS and Android.

Grab - Its services include ride-hailing, food delivery, package delivery, couriers, freight transportation. Available on iOS and Android.

Employment

FastJobsS - An mobile app with various open listings for jobs in Singapore.

JobsDB - Another job search app providing a wide range of work opportunities and vacancies.

Jobstreet - Jobs on offer from over 230,000 employers in Singapore and the region.



Household Needs

Cleaners:

House Keeping by Butler - A one-stop property services company for homes and businesses. Tel. no. +65 8809 0777

Best Housekeeper - Your guide in getting the right help you need in Singapore.

Handymen:

LS Handyman Service - Professional Handyman Services in Singapore Tel No. 68544987.

Handy Man King - High-Quality Handyman Services. Tel. No +65 8730 6882 or email handiman.king.sg@gmail.com.

Finance

PayNow - A convenient way to go cashless for paying bills or transferring funds on your phone.

Apple Pay - You can make contactless, secure purchases in stores, in apps, and on the web. Available on iOS

DBS PayLah! - An app by one of the biggest banks in Singapore that functions as a mobile wallet where you can transfer funds to others via mobile numbers.

Other Essential Apps

MyENV - Developed by National Environmental Agency, this app gives you weather information and also tells you the temperature and air quality as well. Available on iOS and Android.

Weather@SG - To get the latest weather forecast. Available on iOS and Android.

iChangi - Up-to-date flight arrival and departure info in Singapore. Available on iOS and Android

Singapore Checkpoint Traffic - Great if you live over the border, this app shows the traffic situation at the links between Singapore and Malaysia.

Parking. sg - Pay for parking using your mobile devices at all coupon parking car parks.

SG Instant Traffic News - A fast news app with traffic info on accidents and jams that might affect your drive.

Socials

Most of the Facebook groups listed are closed groups so you will need to send a request to join but worry not as they get approved ALL the time!

All about Singapore Expats - For all people living in Hong Kong. From finding friends to selling things you don’t need. This is the FB group for you.

Buy and Sell Singapore - Here is a free page for all to post all products that people are selling. The group has currently 50k members.

Singapore CEO & Business Owners & Founders & Entrepreneurs - Here you can see different services from business operators in Singapore. The group has currently 7.2K members.

Local News & Online Magazines

Straits Time Singapore- A Singapore-based English-language newspaper.

Chinese News Asia - Get the latest headlines about Singapore.

Sassy Mamma Singapore- Get the latest news of what’s hot in the city.

Expat Living in Singapore - Expats directory for the hottest buzz in the city.

Timeout SG - Your neighborhood guide on the latest events, news around Singapore.

The Finder - Get an insider’s guide to living in Singapore.

Honeycombers Singapore - A digital lifestyle platform and a video content and events production house.

#orientationtourinSG #SGlocal #SGexpat #exploreSG #discoverSG #iloveSG #sgmovers #essentialappsinsg #expatmusthave #SGmovers #newlocalsg #sgresident #newresident #travelnow #travelSG #exploreSG #discoversingapore #discoverSG #supportlocal #lioncity #littlereddot #postcovidtravels #postcoviddestination #travel #essentialsg