Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/culture-heritage/heritage-discovery/eurasian-heritage-centre/

Title: Eurasian Heritage Centre

Ever wondered about the Eurasians in Singapore? Look no further. The Eurasian Heritage Centre explores the rich history and culture of this diverse community through different exhibitions, three heritage galleries as well as special activities.

Home in Katong

The Eurasian community is one of Singapore’s smallest, but also one of its earliest. Known for their hybrid traditions of East and West, their Asian and European origins can be traced to some of the region’s oldest colonial settlements, such as Malacca, Penang, Goa, Macau and Ceylon (now Sri Lanka).

The Eurasian Heritage Centre within the Eurasian Community House lies in the heart of vibrant Katong, which many Eurasians have called home since the early 20th century.

Heritage, food and song

Refurbished in 2019, the establishment’s three heritage galleries foreground the community’s historical role in Singapore’s nation building, the community’s ever-evolving culture, and prominent personalities from both history and the present day.

The latter category include modern sports star Joseph Schooling—Singapore’s first Olympic Gold Medallist—and pioneers like politicians Benjamin Sheares and E.W. Barker. World War II buffs will also be intrigued by how Eurasian families lived through the Japanese Occupation.

Visitors touring these three galleries will have a variety of tour packages to choose from, with opportunities to sample Eurasian delicacies, or participate in hands-on cooking sessions.

If you have the chance, take part in a Portuguese folk-dance workshop. Ask for the classic song Jinkli Nona, a traditional Portuguese Malaccan folk song.

Foodies will enjoy sampling traditional Eurasian fare at Quentin’s Eurasian Restaurant, the Eurasian Community House’s in-house restaurant. Try the super-spicy Devil’s Curry or the traditional sugee cake, a nutty cake made from semolina and almonds and topped with marzipan or icing—delicious!