Link: https://www.tallship.com.sg/blog/media-coverage/feature-on-expat-choice/

Title: Expat Reporter Sylvia Fernandes Reviews Singapore’s No 1 Sunset Dinner Cruise Aboard The Royal Albatross

Jun 5, 2023

Published on Expat Choice

Expat Reporter Sylvia Fernandes Reviews Singapore’s No 1 Sunset Dinner Cruise Aboard The Royal Albatross

Lucky for those of us who live in Singapore, the luxury Tall Ship Royal Albatross is right here on our shores. Moored in Sentosa, I was dismayed at its beauty as I turned the corner from the SEAAquarium. Like something out of a Disney movie, it looked surreal and magical. A four-masted 22-sail luxury Tall Ship, I felt elated as I was one of the last to board the dinner cruise. Guests were already evidently seated at tables on deck, stylishly set out against the backdrop of a receding evening. All aboard and we were off. Setting the mood was a Spanish guitarist and singer, akin to Jose Feliciano. Melancholic and perfect!

It didn’t take long to relax as the wind swept against my cheeks and I left the perils of my busy day behind me. I was aboard The Royal Albatross to experience the 7-course sunset dinner cruise with wine pairing for $375++. A good offer I thought, for it included a two and a half hour sail around the exquisite skyline of Singapore.

Many guests took advantage of the light before it faded, to take photos with their loved ones. There was a lot of love to be felt tonight for pink and red hearts were seen in different parts of the boat.

Someone was going to receive a proposal and others were celebrating special occasions – anniversaries, birthdays and even apologies. Wow this was truly a great way to do it with difference. Seared scallops, couscous and quinoa with sesame dressing hit the table. Accompanied by a glass of Bottega Pinot Grigio, we sat back, chilled, as we sipped wine, taking in the elegance of this historic ship that started life in Chicago, cruising the Great Lakes. A journey of 15,000km later, it found a

new home in Singapore.

The amazing degustation courses continued with roast tomato soup, crabcakes, Bouillabaisse paired with a delicious Veramonte Chardonnay. As we devoured this delicious food, we also realized the enormous effort put in by the Chef and his assistants. It’s one thing to produce top quality food and another to do it from a ship’s kitchen. The sun was setting by this time. A lull, as we went by large cargo ships towering over us. So different to see ships in the foreground, up close and personal.

We were informed about other unique experiences offered by The Royal Albatross. The world’s first-ever dog cruise which is ever so popular, with regulars turning up every few months. Sitting at the same table to enjoy a gourmet dinner or breakfast together. Another unique experience Pirates Ahoy! A two-hour sail where kids learn about pirate life on a real pirate Tall Ship. Adults might like the New City Lights free flow cruise that would put them at ease, leaving office woes behind. A great idea for a corporate event!

Taking a break from the upper deck we decided to have a look around the air-conditioned bar and saloon. Strewn with comfortable sofas, we sunk into one feeling the ship’s engine chug away. Historic paraphernalia enveloped us in this cozy space. I could imagine this unique venue playing host to private and corporate events. Not surprising that The Royal Albatross won “The Outstanding Attraction Experience Winner” in 2022. Risotto and a beef Bolognese pasta were the last two courses. We were so amazed at the high quality produced, that it secured this experience as a top spot in our minds. It would certainly be another option to consider right here at home, beating the need to board a plane for somewhere. A dessert platter of four varieties closed the meal in elegant fashion. Plated on a long dessert platter we had a passionfruit choux that oozed out as I bit into it. A chocolate berry tart, crème Bruleé and a citrus macaroon.

Much to our luck and delight, a half bottle of champagne was plonked on our table. A couple celebrating the husband’s birthday decided we should take over as they departed The Royal Albatross. Filled with many unique experiences, our delightful night had come to an end. Pumped up with adrenaline, we descended from this magical ship to reclaim our shoes that had been left with concierge and began our walk back to reality. One definitely etched in the deepest recesses of my mind as a wonderful night to remember……

The Sunset Dinner dine and sail packages are perfect for celebrating in style, be it a romantic date, a special birthday or anniversary, or simply an opportunity to spend quality time with family and friends, you are assured of an unforgettable evening with Royal Albatross and its award-winning crew. Savour the gastronomical delights of the standard 4-course dinner or upgrade to the 7-course dinner, or a 4 or 7 course dinner with wine pairing.

The magic is not limited to just your surroundings; the Tall Ship takes center stage in delivering an enchanting evening at sea. With the traditional rigging of this 4-mast 22-sail luxury Tall Ship towering overhead, 360-degree sea views, and mood lighting surrounding you, the Royal Albatross creates a truly unique dining ambience like no other!

Along with two premium bars, a flying seat over the water and carefully selected live entertainment, the dinner cruises have all the ingredients for an

unforgettable evening on board the amazing superyacht. The Royal Albatross Sunset Dinner Prices (current at time of publishing):

4- course Sunset Dinner Cruise Menu – $225 ++

4- course Sunset Dinner Cruise with Wine Pairing – $285++

7- course Sunset Dinner Cruise Menu – $300 ++

7- course Sunset Dinner Cruise with Wine Pairing – $375++

For more information on the Royal Albatross, visit here.