Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/explore-singapore-along-north-east-line/

Title: Explore Singapore along the North-East MRT line

Whether you’re having a stroll along the scenic Punggol Waterway or enjoying a night out discovering diverse dining options at Clarke Quay, these stops along the North-East MRT (Mass Rapid Transit) line are bound to bring you amazing experiences.



Punggol

Escape from the city bustle with some peace and serenity in Punggol, right at the tip of the North-East MRT line. Make your way to Punggol Waterway Park, where fitness enthusiasts can jog or cycle on the designated tracks along the waterway, and families can splash about at the water playground after picnicking in the park. There’s also Punggol Promenade Riverside Walk, a scenic waterfront boardwalk that overlooks Serangoon Reservoir. Look out for a cluster of dining places right by the boardwalk on Tebing Lane—we recommend café Whisk & Paddle, for brunch with a view on the outdoor patio.

Tired from all that walking? Refuel at Punggol Settlement, an F&B venue that exudes ‘throwback’ vibes reminiscent of the old Punggol district—think traditional local food, nostalgic décor, and good ol’ kampong (small village or community) spirit.

Adventurous ones can also head to Coney Island (you can take a 15-minute walk over from Punggol Point Park) where you can take on rugged cycling trails or spend a peaceful afternoon bird-watching.

Serangoon

Step out of Serangoon MRT station and you’ll find yourself in NEX, the king of heartland megamalls. Indulge in some one-stop shopping here (the mall is home to brands such as H&M, Sephora and Isetan department store) or take a short walk to Jalan Riang. You’ll need to do a bit of navigating amidst residential estates to get there, but it’s worth the effort. Treat yourself to a chocolate marshmallow pie or sticky date pudding from Wimbly Lu Chocolates—a favourite among residents in the area. Just a short bus ride away is Serangoon Gardens, a residential and lifestyle enclave. The highlight of the neighbourhood has to be Chomp Chomp, a hawker centre that’s been serving up excellent local fare since 1972—be sure to join the queue for some delicious satay (grilled skewered meats). Wash all that nosh down with a pint or two from Thirsty Craft Beer Shop, a cosy store that stocks over 300 craft beers and ciders.

Little India

Get a glimpse of Little India’s tradition and culture at landmarks such as The Temple of a Thousand Lights (a Buddhist temple, the centerpiece of which is a 15-metre-tall Buddha statue), Sri Veeramakaliamman Temple (a Hindu temple which dates back to the 19th century), or the House of Tan Teng Niah (an iconic, colourful Chinese villa in the heart of Little India). You can also experience Little India’s culture through its food. Tuck into authentic Indian fare without breaking the bank at Gokul Vegetarian Restaurant, or Blue Diamond Restaurant, where they serve up a mean briyani (an Indian spiced rice dish with meat or vegetables). No trip to Little India is complete without making a pilgrimage to Mustafa Centre. This 24-hour shopping behemoth sells just about anything you can think of—running the gamut from household knick-knacks to sports shoes, and kids’ toys to frozen foods.

Clarke Quay

For a fun night out, look no further than Clarke Quay. Embark on your own pub crawl and grab a few—or many—drinks along the Singapore River. Head over to Café Iguana for refreshing margaritas and hearty Mexican fare, or get your foodie fix with the piping hot bowls of pork rib broth at Song Fa Bak Kut Teh.

Looking for a dose of adrenaline? Strap yourself onto the Slingshot, a thrilling ride that’ll have you hurtling at speeds of over 160 kilometres per hour. If the thought alone makes you squeamish, enjoy a more peaceful experience on board the Singapore River Cruise, a historic bumboat ride that travels the length of the river. Book a stay in the heart of one of Singapore’s most colourful districts at Swissotel Merchant Court or Park Hotel. If you’re traveling on a budget, try 5footway.inn Project Boat Quay, a charming hostel just down the river.

HarbourFront