Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/kid-friendly-hotels/

Title: Family fun—Kid-friendly hotels in SG

From beach resorts on Sentosa to luxurious glamping experiences in the heart of the city, families will be spoilt for choice with the myriad kid-friendly hotels in Singapore.



Under the SG Clean Initiative—a nationwide campaign to safeguard hygiene and public health—these stellar accommodations boast a range of rigorous measures, including comprehensive temperature checks and frequent disinfection of common facilities.

Head on vacation and leave your concerns at home—If you’re travelling with kids in tow, these accommodations are bound to offer precious bonding opportunities and wholesome fun galore.



The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Singapore

Looking for an unforgettable family staycation? Try glamping in the heart of Marina Bay at The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Singapore. The signature Ritz Kids experience promises luxurious in-room camping coupled with an exhilarating night safari theme. Ignite your child’s sense of inquisitiveness as they embark on a special quest within the grounds of the hotel. Armed with a passport and discovery map, they’ll be guided to collect stamps at various checkpoints, and rewarded with a complimentary scoop of ice-cream at the end! The adventure continues back in your Premier Suite where a cosy camping tent awaits. Equipped with a night lamp, edible goodies and engaging activity sheets, the youngsters are bound to be kept busy until their bedtime. The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Singapore. 7 Raffles Avenue, Singapore 039799. +65 6337 8888.

Shangri-La’s Rasa Sentosa Resort & Spa

With a host of activities for everyone from toddlers to adults, families are guaranteed a fun-filled tropical holiday at Shangri-La’s Rasa Sentosa Resort & Spa.

Located on the idyllic island resort of Sentosa, the popular beachfront hotel is a mere 15-minute drive from the city centre and offers spacious guest rooms overlooking the South China Sea.

Start your day soaking up the sun at the swimming pools, kids’ water slides and splash pad.

Then indulge in a relaxing spa session while your little ones are kept entertained at the dedicated kids club. Think: jungle-themed play area with plentiful storybooks, toys, video games and even a giant treehouse slide!

In order to minimise overcrowding at shared facilities during this period, do book your preferred time slots in advance before you head down to the pool or beach.

Shangri-La’s Rasa Sentosa Resort & Spa. 101 Siloso Road, Singapore 098970. +65 6275 0100.

Furama RiverFront

If your child loves playing pretend as a swashbuckling pirate or wildlife ranger, then the themed suites at the newly revamped Furama Riverfront will be a dream come true for him or her.

Let imaginations run wild as they go on an underwater adventure or embark on a safari expedition in the comfort of a hotel room. Each suite comes with whimsical decor, bunk beds and kid-friendly amenities—There’s even an Xbox console for both teens and the young at heart. Rigorous cleaning efforts are in place—public areas with high touch points are sanitised frequently with hospital-grade disinfectants while cutleries are sterilised using ultraviolet light—to ensure a safe and hygienic environment for all guests. Furama RiverFront. 405 Havelock Road, Singapore 169633. +65 6333 8898.

Capri by Fraser Changi City

Is there a budding chef in your family? Now your child has the chance to hone his culinary skills while you enjoy a relaxing getaway at Capri by Fraser Changi City. Situated next to Expo MRT station, the modern hotel residence boasts suites with state-of-the-art home entertainment system and well-equipped kitchenette.

The Capri Master Chef Junior Staycation package provides a cooking starter kit and mini apron, allowing your kiddo to whip up tasty creations from the comfort of your suite.

The little ones will also have fun with the “Spot the Spot'' challenge, where they will locate iconic spots around the establishment and snap photos to win a Capri mascot plushie.

Capri by Fraser Changi City. 3 Changi Business Park Central 1, Singapore 486037. +65 6933 9833.

InterContinental Singapore

Enjoy quality bonding time with your loved ones at InterContinental Singapore, a beautiful heritage hotel set in the cultural precinct of Bugis.

The Family Suite will not disappoint with its plush master bedroom that connects to an interactive kid’s zone, featuring custom-designed bunk beds with a slide, inviting crawl spaces, a mini activity desk, and a kid’s tepee.

As part of the Family First Staycation package, juniors get to watch their favourite Disney movies in-room while snacking on popcorn and milkshakes. And if that’s not enough of a treat, the prospect of unlimited ice-cream at The Lobby Lounge is sure to elicit squeals of delight.

InterContinental Singapore. 80 Middle Road, Singapore 188966. +65 6338 7600.