Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/fascinating-farm-visits-in-singapore/

Title: Fascinating farm visits in Singapore

Hay Dairies

Run by second-generation owner Leon Hay, Singapore’s only goat farm is home to over 800 American mountain goats. Milking sessions take place at 1030am daily, so you’ll want to be up bright and early if you’re planning a farm tour.

Learn more about the tender loving care that goes into goat farming, and get up close and personal with these adorable animals by taking part in an alfalfa feeding session. For a tasty treat, be sure to bring home a pint or two of fresh goat’s milk.

Hay Dairies. 3 Lim Chu Kang Lane 4, Singapore 718859. +65 6792 0931.

Mon, Wed-Sun 9am-4pm.

Jurong Frog Farm

With over four decades of history behind it, this 1.2-hectare farm is home to over 20,000 American Bullfrogs, used in traditional dishes like frog leg porridge.

Run by second-generation farmer Chelsea Wan and her family, the farm boasts a range of charming activities for visitors—from educational tours for the entire family to feeding sessions.

Pit your dexterity against these high-jumping amphibians with the farm’s Catch A Frog challenge, or explore the compound at your own pace with the Frog Quest explorer itinerary.

Foodies hankering for exotic tastes should also check out the farm’s range of products, which includes crocodile meat, frog legs and venison.

Jurong Frog Farm. 51 Lim Chu Kang Lane 6 Singapore 718864. +65 6791 7229.(Tour reservations and pickup of purchases) Tue-Fri 9am-5.30pm.

(Open to general public) Sat, Sun & PH 9am-5.30pm.

ComCrop

Fertile soil may be limited in Singapore, but that hasn’t stopped our local vegetable farmers from growing, thriving and innovating. Case in point? ComCrop—one of our island’s pioneering rooftop farms.

Run by tireless owner and farmer Peter Barber, this rooftop farm grows a bounty of pesticide-free herbs and vegetables, ranging from lettuce to mint and basil.

If you’re curious about the intricacies of urban farming, be sure to check out their Facebook page for updates on tours and volunteer sessions. You’ll get to learn about the innovative systems, climate control and hydroponics used to grow crops in the heart of a city.

ComCrop. 15 Woodlands Loop Rooftop, Singapore 738322.

Kin Yan Agrotech

Located in Singapore’s idyllic countryside just a stone’s throw away from Sungei Buloh Wetland reserves, Kin Yan Agrotech is the island’s largest mushroom and wheatgrass farm.

Beside its primary range of produce, the farm also cultivates other crops like aloe vera, cacti and watercress. Take a stroll through this idyllic space to learn about the nuances of wheatgrass cultivation, or purchase a mushroom growing kit to try your hands at farming.

Fun fact: All of the farm’s crops are nurtured with a 100% organic growing process, with compost made from biological waste like shoot clippings and roots. Buy home some of their produce, and taste the difference for yourself!

Kin Yan Agrotech. 220 Neo Tiew Crescent, Singapore 718830. +65 6794 8368.

Daily 9am-5pm.

