Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/where-to-shop-rare-for-collectibles/

Title: Flea markets in Singapore

Beyond the gleaming malls of Orchard Road, in corners of the city not usually trodden by tourists, flea markets pop up regularly, offering bargain buys, vintage finds and limited edition steals. Here are nine of them.

Art Market by The Local People

The Art Market transforms unusual locations such as car parks and museums into a party and flea market rolled into one. Local designers and artists form the bulk of the vendors here, so you’ll be in the best place to collect never-before-seen fashion, accessories, homeware and other hipster knickknacks. Most Art Market editions also have musicians, live mural artists, food stalls and even DJs adding to the party vibe, which will leave you with an experience greater than the sum of all the unique finds in your shopping bag. Various locations and times. Check out this link for updates.

Fleawhere

Fleawhere isn’t so much a flea market as a collective that puts together regular, themed fairs—we’re talking two to three every month—that cater to the hip youths of Singapore. But no matter which you hit up, there’s one guarantee: You won’t find any of these items in malls. In MOX Parade, for instance, local artists, fashion designers and other creatives showcase their collections, while Flea Party lets you be a bargain hunter as you scour the tables for pre-loved and vintage fashion. Various locations and times. Check out this link for their schedule.

Public Garden Consumer Trade Show

Play fashionista and critique or acquire never-before-seen collections at the Public Garden Consumer Trade Show. A few times each year, emerging designers and independent brands from Hong Kong, Thailand and Singapore descend upon convention halls in the city to flaunt the apparel, accessories and homeware that they’ve spent months working on. Previous year’s editions have seen the likes of local fashion labels Vespertine and Made by Mate hawk their wares—so who knows, you might just find your new favourite designer here.

Various locations and times. Check out this link for updates.

Boutiques

Sashay down the aisles of this ‘open-concept market’ that gives you a chance to unleash your inner fashionista. At Boutiques’ twice-yearly markets, you’ll find local designers who handcraft their high fashion-esque apparel and accessories using only quality materials. Throw on a limited edition cashmere scarf from Ayesha Cashmere or slip into an elegant shift from ELOHIM BY SABRINA GOH and you’ll instantly feel as divine as a movie star. If you’d like to show off your creativity, Boutiques’ markets also offer workshops that teach you pottery, flower arrangement and other crafts. There’s even a café and bar section that serves up healthy lunches, craft cocktails and some seriously good coffee—all the things you need for a well-deserved pampering session. F1 Pit Building. 1 Republic Boulevard Level 2 & 3, Singapore 038975.

Various times. Check out this link for updates.

Pasar malam

It’s loud, sweaty and heaving with people, yet the pasar malam (Malay for “night market”) has been a late-night family ritual for generations of locals. Usually held in residential areas out of the city centre, these outdoor night markets are bustling carnivals where bargain-bin clothes, electronic accessories and children’s amusement rides come together under one roof. Pasar malam is synonymous with food. There’s Chinese street grub, Malay snacks and the legendary Ramly Burger, which is a spicy, localised take on the American classic—you can even bring home local confectionery and titbits as souvenirs. And during Chinese New Year and Hari Raya Aidilfitri, several massive pasar malam start sprouting up in Chinatown and Geylang Serai, respectively. Various locations and times. Check out this Facebook page for more information.

Singapore Really Really Free Market

At the Singapore Really Really Free Market, you’ll be joining arms with members of a charitable community. As its name suggests, everything in this one-of-a-kind market is completely free: There’s pre-loved clothing, antiques, henna tattoos, tarot card readings and more. The organisers had sustainability and waste-free living in mind when they launched this concept, so head down and you might unearth treasure from someone else’s trash.

Various locations and times. Check out this Facebook page for more information.