Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/halal-food-in-north-singapore/

Title: Fuel up on Halal food in the north of Singapore

Get your adrenaline pumping while wakeboarding in Sembawang, take a walk on the wild side at the Singapore Zoo, or work up an appetite kayaking down Lower Seletar Reservoir. After an action-packed day, hit up these Halal eateries in the north for a sumptuous treat.

YISHUN

Get in touch with nature by making a stop at this residential area in the northeastern corner of Singapore. Home to plenty of lush parks and ponds with serene waters, the idyllic town of Yishun is worth a trek to the north.

Arnold’s Fried Chicken The irresistible smell of fried food pulls a crowd to Arnold’s Fried Chicken daily. The 30-year-old fast food chain has perfected the art of achieving crispy, golden brown chicken that’s juicy on the inside. Arnold’s sizeable spring chicken meals come with a side of fries and coleslaw, which, on its own, is enough to feed a small family. The local brand also honours Singaporean heritage, with ice cream paired with ice kachang (local shaved ice dessert made with red beans, jelly and sweet syrup) on its dessert menu. When in Yishun, do as the heartlanders do and pay a visit to Yishun Pond Park, a tranquil spot in the middle of the residential estate. Climb up the spiral tower for a bird’s-eye view of the area—you’ll spot Housing Development Board apartments, which are government housing that most Singaporeans call home, as well as the lush greenery of nearby Yishun Park. Yishun 10 Cinema Cineplex. 51 Yishun Central 1 #01-04, Singapore 768794. +65 6757 7732.

Daily 11am-10pm.

Super Penyet

American comfort food isn’t the only regional culinary style that’s famous for its fried chicken. To whet your appetite with a regional delicacy, pay a visit to Super Penyet.

Located in Chong Pang Food Centre, this stall’s signature is undoubtedly its ayam penyet (East Javanese fried chicken dish)—a rice dish served with a side of chicken that’s been flattened with a pestle and mortar. If you’re hankering for seafood, you can opt for the store’s fish variant instead.

Both options are served with a fiery side of sambal (chilli paste)—Spice lovers can bring a bottle (or three) home to share with their friends and loved ones.

Super Penyet. 105 Yishun Ring Road, Singapore 76105. +65 9066 1778.

Mon-Fri 8am-7.30pm; Sat & Sun 7am-7.30pm.

Yishun Park Hawker Centre

Located just a short stroll away from the tranquil Yishun Park, this hawker centre is a great option for hungry travellers craving variety.

Take a walk around this modern hawker centre, and you’ll find stalls like 4 Hands Cooking, which sell everything from mee rebus (boiled noodles served in curry gravy) and nasi lemak (fragrant rice dish cooked in coconut milk and pandan leaf, accompanied by various side dishes). If you’re just looking for a midday snack, you can opt for the curry puffs from Kalsom Kuih Muih or the you tiao from Uncle Dough instead.

Yishun Park Hawker Centre. 51 Yishun Avenue 11, Singapore 768867. +65 6481 7573.

Daily 6am-10pm.

4 Hands Cooking at Yishun Park Hawker Centre. #01-03.

Daily 7am-5pm.

Kalsom Kuih Muih at Yishun Park Hawker Centre. #01-01.

Tue & Wed, Fri-Sun 1-8pm.

Uncle Dough at Yishun Park Hawker Centre. #01-11.

Tue-Sun 6am-5pm.

WOODLANDS

If you’re coming into Singapore via the Johor-Singapore Causeway, Woodlands will be your first stop to refuel before exploring the rest of the city.

Rasa Istimewa Waterfront Restaurant Soak in picturesque views of the Johor Straits as you tuck into barbecued seafood dishes and a host of other Halal zi char (stir-fried) dishes. The waterfront restaurant is perched in the middle of Woodlands Jetty, endowing your dining experience with the feeling of dining out at sea—sans the rocky boat and seasickness. Try the restaurant’s signature chilli crab (from S$66) and salted egg yolk chicken, a favourite among locals in recent years. The restaurant is located next to the impressive Admiralty Park, spanning 27 hectares. Sungei Cina river runs right through the park, which makes strolling next to the river the best way to explore the park. If you fancy veering off the beaten track, there are several other trails that will bring you up-close and personal with monkeys in their natural habitat, as well as rare flora like the Putat Kampung Tree and Hedgehog Rattan. Rasa Istimewa Waterfront Restaurant. 6A Admiralty Road, Singapore 757445. +65 6366 9339.

Daily noon-midnight.

Citrus By The Pool The sound of children splashing in water and whistles of swimming coaches are a part of the unique ambience when you dine at Citrus By The Pool. Located within Woodlands Swimming Complex, the Halal-certified restaurant serves mostly western-inspired dishes, such as grilled free range chicken and carbonara pasta made with turkey bacon and ham. If you’re there for a dip, avoid swimming on a full stomach and opt for light bites like Citrus’s sinful cheese fries or crispy chicken nuggets. Woodlands Swimming Complex. 3 Woodlands Street 13 #3-3A, Singapore 738600. +65 6366 6581.

Mon-Thu 11am-10.30pm; Fri-Sun 11am-11pm.

MANDAI

Get acquainted with animals from all around the world by heading to Mandai, where the Singapore Zoo, Night Safari and River Wonders are located.