Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/holiday-cruises-from-singapore/

Title: Fun Holiday Cruises Based in Singapore

With our status as a maritime centre, it’s no wonder that Singapore is home to a variety of cruises. From luxury accommodation and exotic locations, to a music festival out at sea, you’re bound to find a unique cruise holiday that will make for an unforgettable experience.

The ports-of-call for all cruises stretch from Southeast Asia to Japan, Australia and India, making them great hubs from which to explore the region and beyond. Begin your trip by experiencing the sights and sounds of our city, before embarking on an adventure on the high seas.

All cruises depart from convenient locations near the centre of Singapore—the Marina Bay Cruise Centre Singapore (International Cruise Terminal) at Marina South Pier, or the Singapore Cruise Centre (International Passenger Terminal) at HarbourFront.

Adventurous and exotic cruises

Royal Caribbean International (RCI)

Price: S$250+ per person

No. of days: 3–14 days



The perfect cruise for social butterflies and those who enjoy onboard entertainment, the Royal Caribbean International (RCI) boasts a slew of exciting activities—from FlowRider® surf simulators and the tallest slide at sea, to disco nights and Broadway musicals. Avid explorers will be able to discover new landscapes when they disembark, with curated walking tours and cave explorations that will immerse you in the indigenous cultures of destinations like Phuket, Vietnam and Port Klang.



Celebrity Cruises

Price: S$1200+ per person

No. of days: 14 days or more



Visitors looking to be pampered like a Hollywood star should consider Celebrity Cruises. You’ll be out at sea for a longer period, but the cruises’ luxurious rooms, facilities and top-class service will see time fly by, as you indulge in world-class comfort.

This range of cruises boasts exquisite bedding in rooms, menus created by Michelin-starred chefs, and The Lawn—half an acre of greenery facing stunning sunsets at sea. It truly is the gold standard of luxury cruises.



Azamara Club Cruises

Price: S$2300+ per person

No. of days: 9 days or more



Azamara Club Cruises is ideal for seasoned travellers who are looking to expand their horizons in exotic locales.

The fleet docks at smaller ports like Sabang in Indonesia and Hambantota in Sri Lanka, ensuring that you will deal with fewer crowds and can explore the roads less travelled. Be sure to keep your eyes peeled for attractive packages like the 11 Night Bali and Western Australia Voyage or the 17-Night Springtime in Asia Voyage.

Partnerships with local tour operators will also surprise you with exclusive activities so that you can live out an authentic and personalised experience. Cooking sessions in a local’s home, anyone?

Cruises for foodies, families and couples

The Royal Albatross Sunset Sail and City Lights Dinner Cruise

Price: S$225 per adult, $125 per child

No. of days: less than 1 day



For a sumptuous meal amid pristine waters, gorgeous sunsets and dazzling city lights, opt for a jaunt aboard The Royal Albatross, winner of the 'Outstanding Attractions Experience' award from Singapore Tourism Board, with their Sunset Sail and Dinner Cruise. This unforgettable, two-and-a-half hour experience aboard a four-masted luxury superyacht will have you taking in the sea breeze and indulging in a sumptuous four course meal of Western classics including Seafood Bouillabaisse.



When you’re done, indulge in a cocktail at the Grand Salon, or climb the mast for a spectacular view.

Princess Cruises

Price: S$300 per person onwards

No. of days: 1 day or more



With a smorgasbord of stellar food options, gourmands are in for a treat on Princess Cruises. The brand was dubbed the ‘world’s healthiest cruise’ by Shape magazine, and it received a slew of awards for its Western fare.

Gourmands embarking on this trip can sample acclaimed dishes from some of the world’s top chefs. These include the ‘Crafted by Curtis Stone’ six-course fine dining experience by chef Curtis Stone, and ‘The Ernesto Burger’ by chef Uchimura of Umami Burger restaurant. The latter was lauded as the Best Burger at Sea by Cruise Critic.

If you’re looking for convenience and customisation, be sure to check out the cruise’s Dine my Way and Ocean Now services, which lets you personalise your cruise dining experience, and order food and drinks for delivery (available via their Medallion Class app on Apple’s App Store and Google Play).

It’s The Ship

Price: S$433 per person onwards

No. of days: 3 days



Editor’s Note: This cruise is currently unavailable due to COVID-19— Be sure to keep an eye on their website for future updates. Asia’s largest music festival at sea, It’s The Ship is an unforgettable experience for party lovers. With an international line-up of DJs and a crowd that parties till dawn, you’re in for a time of fun, new friendships and great music. The party doesn’t have to end when the music stops, with this cruise’s multitude of entertainment options. Kick back and get a tan at the swimming pool, experience thrills and spills at the waterslide park, or soar through the air on a zipline that overlooks the sea.

Crystal Cruises

Price: S$2000+ per person

No. of days: 7 nights or more



Japanese-owned Crystal Cruises exceeds expectations when it comes to both food and service. Besides having one of the industry’s highest staff-to-guest ratios, the company’s many culinary offerings boast exceptional attention to detail. Foodies looking to experience flavours from all across the globe will find a variety of dining spaces to explore. These include Italian restaurant Prego and Silk Kitchen and Bar, which serves up Chinese-inspired cuisine like wok-fried lobsters and crispy duck salad. Other options include Umi Uma Sushi Bar—a Japanese-Peruvian fusion restaurant by Michelin-starred chef Nobu Matsuhisa—and Waterside, which specialises in Modern European cuisine. Passengers who have an appetite for lifelong learning can feed both their minds and bodies on Crystal Cruises. The brand is notable for offering various enrichment workshops onboard, including dance classes and wine-tasting sessions.

Dream Cruises

Price: S$800+ per person

No. of days: 5 days or more



Offering dreamy holidays to active families, Dream Cruises boasts a slate of exciting recreation options, including a waterslide park, a virtual reality experience lab and a rock-climbing wall.

Experience thrills and spills on a customisable VR rollercoaster simulation aboard the World Dream, or romp with your little ones at the Little Dreamers Club, which boasts a slew of rainbow-coloured playthings to keep your kids entertained.

To ensure that you and your family enjoy your cruise vacation with complete peace of mind, Dream Cruises also offers free COVID-19 Antigen Rapid Tests for passengers.