Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/travel-guide-tips/getting-around/

Title: Getting Around Singapore

By Public Transport

Singapore’s MRT (Mass Rapid Transit) and bus systems have an extensive network of routes that will help you zip around the city.

Most of our popular attractions are just a short walk away from an MRT station, making our trains a great way to get around.

Our bus routes are also some of the most scenic, allowing you to indulge in the lush greenery and beautiful architecture of our ‘city in a garden’. All public buses are wheelchair accessible and open strollers are allowed. Please approach our friendly bus captains if you need assistance. Do take note that you may be required to fold your stroller if the bus has too many passengers. You can refer to the the SBS Transit, SMRT, Go-Ahead Singapore, and Tower Transit Singapore websites for more information and guidelines.

Visitors can use the following payment options for their respective MRT or bus journeys:

MRT Bus1 1. Get a Singapore Tourist Pass (STP), a special EZ-Link stored-value card which will allow you unlimited travel for one, two or three days. The Pass can be bought at the SimplyGo Ticket Office at selected MRT stations listed here.

2. Adult Stored-Value Smartcard (EZ-Link / NETS FlashPay): These cost $10 and come with a stored value of $5 for you to use on your commutes. You’ll be able to purchase these at Passenger Service Centres in train stations, any SimplyGo Ticket Office or convenience stores such as 7-11, Buzz and Cheers. 3. You can use your foreign-issued Mastercard® and Visa contactless bank cards2, as well as your mobile wallets for the payment of public transport fares in Singapore. No registration is required. 2Admin fees apply for foreign-issued bank cards. 4. Children above 0.9m in height and below 7 years old can apply for a Child Concession Card at SimplyGo Ticket Office to travel for free on basic bus and train services. Children below 0.9m in height accompanied by a fare-paying commuter can automatically travel for free. For more information on Child Concession Cards, please visit SimplyGo website. 5. Travellers may also opt to pay in cash on buses. Please prepare the exact fare as no change will be given.

Click here for information on payment options for public transport.

For more useful information—including traffic news, journey planning and nearby transport services—download the MyTransport app (available for iOS and Android).

1For non-cash payments on buses, remember to tap in and out on the reader located at the front and rear exits of the bus when you board and alight respectively.