Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/travel-guide-tips/travelling-to-singapore/

Title: Getting to Singapore

Travelling to and from Singapore is generally a fuss-free affair, but if you have any questions in mind, this handy FAQ is bound to answer them all.

Whether you’ve just reached the departure gate at Changi Airport, planning for your first-ever arrival to our sunny island or have questions about getting through customs, this how-to guide will make your entry to and departure from Singapore a breeze.

Travelling to and From Singapore: A How-To Guide

Do I need a visa for entry into Singapore?

Most visitors to Singapore do not require a visa for entry.

For a list of countries that require a valid Visa for entry into Singapore, you can check the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority (ICA)’s website, or enquire at the Singapore Overseas Mission closest to you.

Are there any documents that I need to fill in prior to arrival?

Prior to arrival, you should fill in your SG Arrival Card to submit your arrival information. This can be done up to three days (including the date of arrival) before your visit. You can submit your arrival information via Singapore Immigration & Checkpoints Authority website, or via the MyICA Mobile application.

Departing from Singapore

Are there any convenient services I can use when departing from Singapore?

First-time foreign visitors arriving to Singapore will enroll and clear immigration with iris, facial and fingerprints biometrics at the manual counters or designated lanes at Airport terminals or land checkpoints. They can then enjoy automated clearance with iris and facial biometrics during departure.

Clearing Customs

Is there an app that I can use to clear customs?

Certainly! The Singapore Customs mobile app, Customs@SG, allows you to declare and pay the duty and/or Goods and Services Tax (GST) for your overseas purchases on the go.

Do remember to log in your info before arriving at the checkpoint in Singapore. You can find out more on declarations and payment at Singapore Customs.

How do I check for period of stay granted?

After clearing immigration, an electronic Pass ("e-Pass") will be sent to the email address registered in your SGAC submission. The e-Pass will contain the period of stay granted and last day of stay in Singapore. You may also retrieve the e-Pass via ICA's e-Pass Enquiry Portal to find information on the period of stay granted for your visit. Keep the e-pass on hand for a smoother hotel check-in or tax refund process!

Returning to Singapore

I’m a long-time resident who’s coming back to Singapore —are there any forms I should fill in?

Welcome home! Do note that as of 27 March 2020, you’ll need to fill in some paper work if you’re a:

Singaporean Citizen

Permanent Resident

Long Term Pass Holder

Work Pass Holder

Dependent working in essential services (e.g. health care, transport)

You’ll have to submit a health declaration through the SG Arrival Card e-service before proceeding with immigration clearance.

This health declaration should be submitted up to three days (including the day of arrival) prior to arrival in Singapore. The electronic health declaration is in place for purposes of disease control, specifically to guard against importing infectious diseases of concern, to protect the health of Singapore residents. Do submit a truthful health declaration, so as to avoid running afoul of the Infectious Diseases Act.

For more information on the travel declaration requirements, please refer to the MOH website.