Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/grand-prix-season-singapore/

Title: Grand Prix Season Singapore

Glitz, glamour and nonstop racing action return to the heart of the city, with the revving of engines marking the return of the Grand Prix Season Singapore (GPSS).

Blasting into full gear from 15 – 17 September, the Formula 1 Singapore Airlines Singapore Grand Prix 2023 returns, with island-wide celebrations, four precinct parties providing all the on-and-off-track excitement you've come to expect.

Race fans will get to see the bustling streets of Singapore’s city centre roar to life, with household names like Lewis Hamilton, Max Verstappen and Charles Leclerc battling it out beneath the dazzling lights of the Marina Bay Street Circuit.

Whether you’re looking to cheer on your racing heroes, soak in the glitz and glamour at the track or dance the night away at parties across four of our city’s coolest precincts, 2023’s Singapore Grand Prix is shaping up to be a spectacular event.

Action and Adrenaline

Singapore’s love for F1 is no secret, with 2022’s edition of the event seeing a record turnout of 302,000 race fans. 2023’s race is shaping up to be no less riveting, with the top teams pulling out all the stops at the Marina Bay Sands Circuit – arguably one of the most challenging courses in the world, as well as being the first-ever night race in Formula 1 history.

Besides all the excitement that the race entails, fans attending the race can expect a whole slew of live music and off-track celebrations. Visitors to the event can expect unforgettable performances from pop legends Post Malone, Robbie Williams and Jackson Wang, legendary rock band Kings of Leon and electronic music duo Groove Armada.

Glitz, Glamour and Nightlife

You’ll also find ample opportunities to party with MARQUEE Singapore Race Weekend’s star studded line-up of international DJs including Alan Walker and Hardwell. Don't forget the LAVO Party Brunch which boasts spectacular views of Marina Bay.

Alternatively, indulge in race-themed cocktails and masterclasses with Around The Circuit at the Tanglin Gin Jungle, or mingle with a who’s who of celebrities at the Amber Lounge.

If you’re looking for even more excuses to party, be sure to read on – our Best of GPSS Precinct Parties section will give you the lowdown on the parties that’ll be taking place in four unique districts across Singapore.