Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/shopping-in-marina-bay/

Title: Great shopping haunts in Marina Bay

Often referred to as a shopper’s paradise, Singapore is teeming with a myriad of local and international wares and treasures for shopaholics.

Here is our shopping guide to Marina Bay, a must-visit destination with a huge array of retail options waiting to be discovered.

Sophisticated fashion at The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands®

Fashionistas will be delighted to discover many major fashion brands such as Fendi and Prada in the sprawling luxury mall of the iconic Marina Bay Sands®. Don’t miss a visit to Louis Vuitton’s island maison—housed in a stunning glass pavilion perched on water—where the interiors are designed to feel as though you are on board a luxurious yacht. If you’re looking for stylish threads that won’t break the bank, swing by homegrown labels In Good Company for adult and kids wear, as well as Charles & Keith for footwear and handbags. Besides apparel, you can also find state-of-the-art camera equipment at Leica and specialty toys at Hamley’s. When your legs need a break, slide into the exquisite TWG Tea Salon and sip on over 800 exclusive teas and blends. For something more substantial, savour gourmet dishes from Michelin-starred restaurants like Waku Ghin and CUT by Wolfgang Puck. The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands®. 10 Bayfront Ave, Singapore 018956. +65 6688 8868.

Mon-Thu & Sun 10.30am-11pm; Fri & Sat 10.30am-11.30pm.

One-stop shopping and dining at Suntec City

One of the largest shopping malls in Singapore, Suntec City promises a plethora of shopping, dining and lifestyle experiences to cater to all. Find popular makeup products at Sephora and dress up in trendy garments from H&M. Treat your children to toys and games at Toys R’ Us and shop for the latest tech gadgets at Harvey Norman. If you’re looking for unique wares, be sure to drop by Cross-Sheaffer for beautiful pens and journals, Yacht 21 for stylish ensembles for work, and Bamboo Life for a plethora of lifestyle and grooming products—such as bamboo-based facial cleansers and shampoo. Allow yourself some time to admire the magnificent Fountain of Wealth—you can even get up close to touch its waters, which is said to bring good luck. In the evening, head up to the Sky Garden for a variety of dining options such as Eat at Seven, a cluster of distinct Japanese cuisine concepts under the same roof. Suntec City. 3E Temasek Boulevard, Singapore 038984. +65 6266 1502.

Daily 10am-10pm.

Unique souvenirs at Esplanade Mall

One-of-a-kind gems at Millenia Walk

If unique apparel, accessories and home decor are what you’re looking for, Millenia Walk is the place to be.

For rare vintage dresses, pop by Déjà Vu Vintage—the store stocks only one piece of every design, so you can be assured there won’t be any outfit clashes at your next party.

Discerning gentlemen will want to pay a visit to bespoke menswear tailors Rossi and Mr Bulli & Sons for a sartorial experience like no other.

While you are there, why not take the opportunity to spruce up your living space? Shop eclectic furniture from Alt.o by Commune, dining tables customised by the in-house craftsmen at Grey and Sanders, as well as hyperrealism paintings by Singaporean artist Patrick Bezalel.

Millenia Walk. 9 Raffles Boulevard, Singapore 039596. +65 6883 1122.

Daily 10am-10pm.

Family fun at Marina Square