Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/walk-on-the-wild-side/

Title: Green & Nature: Walk on the Wild Side

Despite its soaring skyscrapers, Singapore is more than just a concrete jungle. As our city in nature blossoms, sustainability is at the forefront of our visions for the future, with greenery intertwining seamlessly with our bustling cityscape and habitats teeming with diverse flora and fauna.

Beautiful parks, secluded island sanctuaries and thriving mangroves are just some of natural splendour you’ll find in Singapore. Take a walk on the wild side, and discover nature unbound in the Lion City.

Pulau Ubin

An island sanctuary that’s home to diverse ecosystems and wildlife, Pulau Ubin makes for a perfect getaway. Take a bumboat from Changi Point Ferry Terminal and make your way to this island off Singapore’s Southern Coast. You’ll be able to spend the day cycling (bicycles are available for rent near the jetty), hiking and exploring off the island’s beaten paths. If you’re looking to snap a photo, birds eye views can be found a short hike up Puaka Hill, or atop Jejawi Tower. Be sure to check out the jewel of the island—the Chek Jawa Wetlands, along the southeastern hook of the island. This miniature marvel of an ecosystem is home to seagrass lagoons, rocky beaches and verdant mangroves. Keep an eye out for squids, fiddler crabs and mantis shrimps as you explore its six habitats. How to get there: Take a 10min bumboat from Changi Point Ferry Terminal (S$3 for a one-way trip) Changi Point Ferry Terminal. 51 Lorong Bekukong, Singapore 499172. +65 6542 7944.

Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve

An ecological wonderland filled with fascinating fauna, this vast mangrove forest is a must-visit for animal lovers. Singapore’s first ASEAN Heritage Park is home to mudskippers, crabs and shellfish, as well as otters and even crocodiles. Keep your cameras and binocular trained on the tree line, and you may be in for a feathery surprise. Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve is a stopover point for rare migratory birds like the Mongolian Plover and the Asian Dowitcher. Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve. 301 Neo Tiew Crescent, Singapore 718925. +65 6794 1401.

Daily 7am-7pm.

Labrador Nature Reserve

History and nature intertwine at Labrador Nature Reserve, a natural habitat that was once the site of a fort dating back to World War II. Located along the 10-kilometre stretch of greenery known as the Southern Ridges, this idyllic site overlooks a picturesque, cliff-side view of the sea. As you explore this tranquil space, you’ll come across the remnants of World War II armaments, like a machine gun post and various artillery pieces. The pink Berlayer Beacon— which was used to navigate boats in the past—can be found on the southernmost end of the park, and makes for a great photo at dusk. Nature trails like the Coastal Path & Nature Path are ideal for explorers looking to work up a sweat, and the Bukit Chermin Boardwalk makes for a great view of the coastline. Labrador Nature Reserve. Labrador Villa Road, Singapore 119187.

Daily 7am-7pm.

Singapore Botanic Gardens

One of our island’s most beloved green spaces, the Singapore Botanic Gardens is a UNESCO World Heritage Site is a floral fantasy for nature lovers. This pristine 60-acre space was first established in 1859, and is a popular haunt of local families, nature lovers and joggers looking to unwind outdoors. You’ll be able to spot swans and terrapins while relaxing in the pavilions at the Swan Lake, relax amidst the jade green ponds of the Sundial Garden and admire the 60,000 orchid plants of the National Orchid Gardens. If you’re lucky, you’ll even be able to catch a live music performance at the Shaw Symphony Stage, which occasionally hosts performances by the Singapore Symphony Orchestra. Singapore Botanic Gardens. 1 Cluny Road, Singapore 259569. 1800 471 7300.

Daily 5am-midnight.

Central Catchment Nature Reserve