Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/travel-guide-tips/about-singapore/city-in-nature/sustainable-architecture/

Title: Green spaces and sustainable buildings in SG

With eco-friendly architectural marvels, green spaces nestled within urban landscapes and nature reserves, our City in Nature is an ideal destination for sustainable travel.

Whether you’re looking to discover the many gardens in our city or explore green, urban spaces, here’s our a guide to our city’s many sustainable attractions.

A City of Sustainable Wonders

Visitors to Singapore tend to marvel at our city’s futuristic buildings, but there’s a whole lot more to uncover beyond the surface.

Many of our city’s icons have been built with sustainability at the heart of their design. Here’s a look at the inner workings of some of these famous buildings.

Jewel Changi Airport

The first sparkling landmark you’ll see when touching down in Singapore, Jewel Changi Airport is a feat of sustainable architecture. The towering Rain Vortex at the centre of the lifestyle hub employs recirculated rainwater to provide cooling and airflow to the vicinity, while the space is home to over 2,000 trees and 100,000 shrubs- a veritable forest within an airport.

Gardens by The Bay

The living embodiment of the “City in a Garden”, Gardens by the Bay houses over 1.5 million plants and exotic blossoms, which helps offset carbon dioxide in the city. Its cooled conservatories use cutting-edge technology for energy efficiency.

The garden’s towering SuperTrees aren’t just vertical gardens either—these structures have been designed to collect rainwater, serve as air venting ducts and generate solar power.

ArtScience Museum

Often compared to a lotus or a welcoming hand, the ArtScience Museum is an iconic part of Marina Bay Sands, with sustainable design built into its architecture. Take a stroll through the museum to admire the myriad exhibits, and you’ll be greeted with interiors illuminated by natural sunlight. The building’s Rain Oculus also allows over 1,400 tonnes of water to be recycled annually.

Nature in the City Centre

Travel around the heart of Singapore, and you’ll find verdant spaces amidst our skyscrapers and modern buildings. From reservoirs to parks and reservoirs, these swathes of nature keep our city sustainable and green.

Singapore Botanic Gardens

This UNESCO Heritage Site dates all the way back to 1859, as the pet project of Sir Stamford Raffles, modern Singapore’s founder. Admire the 1,500 species of orchids on display at the National Orchid Garden, explore a tropical montante forest and Secret Ravine in the Tropical Montante Orchidetum, and romp with your kids amid the treehouses and streams of the Jacob Ballas’ Children’s Garden.

Fort Canning Park

Once the site of 14th century kings and the headquarters of the British Army during World War II, this green sanctuary is home to nine gardens, each with their own unique story to tell. Take a stroll through the heritage gallery to learn more about our city's past, or explore spaces like the Farquhar garden, where nature and history collide.

MacRitchie Reservoir Park

Home to Singapore’s largest reservoir, MacRitchie Reservoir Park is a popular haunt for joggers, nature lovers and photography enthusiasts alike.



Take in the bird’s eye view from the TreeTop Walks, trek along the scenic MacRitchie Trails and keep your eyes peeled for monkeys, squirrels and flying lemurs.

Suburban Parks and Nature

In Singapore, getting around in an eco-friendly fashion is an adventure in itself.



Our city is linked by an extensive Park Connector Network, making it the perfect opportunity to cycle, jog and rollerblade around to explore some of our island’s nature sanctuaries.

HortPark

This beautiful space is a stomping ground for gardening enthusiasts, with activities like hands-on workshops, gardeners’ markets, and guided strolls like the Bees and Butterflies Trail Tour.

Jurong Lake Gardens

This 90-hectare stretch of greenery is a perfect destination for families, with playgrounds and workshops for the little ones and beautiful habitats like Heron Island and the Southern Promenade. The latter is home to a variety of native birds like the Yellow-vented bulbul and The Spotted Wood Owl.

Sembawang Hot Springs

Surrounded by a public park, this natural hot spring is a great place to unwind and ‘soak in nature’ (literally). Take a stroll along the Floral Walk—home to trees and edible plants that hearken back to the 1960s — and then enjoy a soak with the public Foot Bath.