Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/halal-buffets-in-singapore/

Title: Halal Buffets at Singapore's Top Restaurants

Singapore is a food paradise for gourmands from all religions, cultures and walks of life. For Muslim visitors coming to our sunny island, here’s a list of restaurants serving up a variety of sumptuous halal buffets.

For an Instagram-worthy experience—Ginger

If you’re looking to feed both your belly and your social media feed, look no further than Ginger. With its tropical theme and pastel-hued furniture, this restaurant is bound to have you snapping a ton of shots before digging in to your meal.

You’ll find a diverse array of both international and regional dishes here, from sashimi to lobster slathered in black pepper sauce. Unique dishes include include Sate lilet (skewered meat wrapped with lemongrass) and a miniature version of the ‘Ramly’ burgers that’re commonly found at pasar malams (night markets) across the island.

Ginger at PARKROYAL on Beach Road. 7500 Beach Road Level 1, Singapore 199591. +65 3138 1995.

Mon & Tue 8-10.30am; Wed-Sun noon-2.30pm, 6-10pm.

For mouth-watering variety—Buffet Town

Looking to fuel up before going on a shopping spree ? Mosey on by Buffet Town at Raffles City to indulge in a smorgasbord of dishes.

This beloved international buffet features a whole range of buffet stations, dishing out Western cuisine like pizza and pasta, local delights like satay and chilli crab and a range of Japanese teppanyaki. The restaurant is also famous for its hot pot, which lets you mix and match flavourful soup bases with over 50 different ingredients.

This lively spot frequently holds promotions and a range of different events—from live music to festive celebrations—so be sure to check out their website and social media for the latest updates!

Buffet Town at Raffles City. 252 North Bridge Road #B1-44E, Singapore 179103. +65 6837 3793.

Daily 11.30am-3pm, 6-10pm.

For local and regional seafood dishes—Asian Market Café

Depending on the region of Asia that you visit, you’re bound to come across a novel method of preparing seafood, from spice-laden Southeast Asian dishes to traditional Chinese techniques, which foregrounds the freshness of the produce. These varied methods of seafood preparation come together in the Lion City, with its Indian, Chinese, Malaysian and Peranakan food cultures. Taste what each culture has to offer at the Asian Market Café, in Fairmont Singapore Hotel. It’s hard to pick a favourite from the extensive spread here, but do remember to save space for a portion of chilli crab, arguably Singapore’s most iconic seafood dish. Eat it like a local by using a mantou (Chinese steamed bun) to sop up the spicy gravy. Other Asian staples to whet your appetite include Assam Fish Head and Hong Kong-style steamed seabass. Other seafood classics to try include marinated sotong (squid) in fiery sambal (chilli paste), seafood fried rice, steamed seabass and Penang prawn noodles. Asian Market Café at Fairmont Singapore. 80 Bras Basah Road Level 2, Singapore 189560. +65 6339 7777.

Mon, Thu & Fri noon-2.30pm, 6-10pm; Sat & Sun noon-4pm, 6-10pm.

For local cuisine—StraitsKitchen

Singaporean cuisine is a delicious mix of multicultural flavours that hearken from all across Asia. To experience this unique tapestry of different tastes for yourself, have a meal at StraitsKitchen. Foodies who’re interested in the intricacies of food preparation will be able to witness a feast being whipped up before their eyes, as the establishment’s brigade of veteran hawkers display their chops from live theatre kitchens. Noted as one of Singapore’s most popular buffets, this eatery boasts a medley of traditional staples and beloved hawker fare, which means that you’ll be able to taste a wide variety of flavours from different ethnicities, without worrying about dietary restrictions. Tuck in to a plate of Hainanese chicken rice, sop up an assortment of curries with roti prata (South Indian flatbread) and end your meal on a sweet note with Malay desserts like kueh lapis (layered cake) and pulut hitam (black glutinous rice porridge). StraitsKitchen at Grand Hyatt Singapore. 10 Scotts Road Lobby Level, Singapore 228211. +65 6738 1234.

Daily noon-2pm, 3-4.30pm, 6.30-9.30pm.

For award-winning flavours—Carousel

Voted the best buffet restaurant in Singapore for seven consecutive years by the AsiaOne’s People’s Choice Award, Carousel serves up a lavish spread of over 100 dishes. If you’re in the mood for seafood, chow down on Maine lobsters, Australian black mussels and Alaskan King Crab legs. Meat lovers are in for a treat as well, as the restaurant boasts French rotisserie-style meats like leg of lamb and black pepper chicken. Foodies with a sweet tooth can round off their visit with desserts like bread and butter pudding with vanilla sauce and a decadent selection of cakes. Carousel at Royal Plaza on Scotts Singapore. 25 Scotts Road, Singapore 228220. +65 6219 3780.

Daily noon-2pm, 6.30-9.30pm.

For meals with a spectacular view —Peppermint

Housed within PARKROYAL COLLECTION Marina Bay, Peppermint, an international buffet that’s ideal for foodies who’re craving a farm-to-table dining experience.

There’s a plethora of different dishes to choose from here, but conscious dining takes front and centre stage— with the menu featuring numerous plant-based options and locally-sourced ingredients.

If you’re keen to learn more about where the restaurant sources its ingredients, step out onto the terrace. You’ll find an urban farm with over 60 herbs, vegetables and edible flowers that are used to garnish, flavour and accentuate many of the dishes here.

Peppermint at PARKROYAL COLLECTION Marina Bay. 6 Raffles Boulevard Level 4, Singapore 039594. +65 6845 1111.

Mon-Fri noon-2.30pm, 6.30-10pm; Sat & Sun noon-3pm, 6.30-10pm.

In search of halal feasts, places of worship or a jam-packed itinerary of exciting attractions? The Muslim Visitors Guide has got you covered—download your copy here!