Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/places-to-see/harbourfront/

Title: HarbourFront

Located along Singapore’s southern coast, HarbourFront is one of Singapore’s many gateways to the sea. Visitors to the neighbourhood include vacationers embarking on sea-bound getaways, beach lovers heading to the sunny island of Sentosa and locals engaging in a bout of retail therapy.

The hustle and bustle of this lively district centres around VivoCity—Singapore’s largest shopping mall—the interconnected HarbourFront Centre, which houses retail stores and the Singapore Cruise Centre, with cruises and ferries departing for islands like Batam.

Retail heaven

With over 300 luxury and household brands spread across 140,000 square metres, it’s no wonder that Vivocity was named one of Singapore’s five best shopping malls by Forbes in 2016.

Notable fashion labels that have set up shop in this retail paradise include MUJI, Tommy Hilfiger, Aesop and Zara, making it a great destination for fashionistas looking to spruce up their wardrobes. If you’re looking for local craftsmanship, drop by Chomel, which sells a sparkling range of jewellery.

To browse an enormous selection of wares—ranging from local snacks and souvenirs to fragrances—pay a visit to TANGS. One of Singapore’s most beloved shopping emporiums, this retail giant is known for stocking an extensive variety of local and international brands.

Endless fun for the family

Visitors planning a movie outing with their little ones should pay a visit to Golden Village VivoCity, Singapore’s largest cinema multiplex. The largest of its 15 halls—dubbed GVMax®—is decked out in state-of-the-art projection technology, and boasts the widest screen in Asia.

Other activities include the Sky Park—with dedicated water play areas for the little ones—and TimeZone. The latter is Singapore’s biggest video game arcade, and features a plethora of activities including bumper car rides, mini-bowling and old-school carnival games.

To unwind while basking in a gorgeous sea view, take a stroll along the Sentosa Boardwalk. Bazaars are held along this 670-metre stretch nearly every weekend, making it a great place to browse for gifts and souvenirs.