Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/healthy-restaurants-in-the-east/

Title: Healthy Restaurants in Eastern Singapore

With beautiful beaches, green spaces and a whole host of opportunities to outdoor activities, Singapore’s east side is a great spot for visitors looking to get active.

It’s also home to a range of restaurants that serve up wholesome eats and nutritious treats. Locally-inspired fare, grain bowls packed with goodness and hearty soups are all on the menu—check out our guide to fuelling up with healthy eats in eastern Singapore.

For hearty spring rolls, soups and stews

Souperstar Opened by sisters Hong Wei Ting and Hong Wei Ling, this family-run establishment recreates the humble local snack, popiah. Souperstar replaces the traditional ingredients of shrimp sambal (chilli paste), turnips and boiled eggs with fillings like roast chicken, seaweed and fresh mango. Besides the expertly rolled popiah, you’ll find big bowls of soups and stews on the menu. The former comes in three sizes, and in flavours such as mushroom and clam chowder, while the stews are served alongside three-grain rice and a side salad. Century Square. 2 Tampines Central 5 #01-34, Singapore 529509.

Daily 9am-9.15pm.

Fast food burgers with a healthy twist

VeganBurg Burgers and fries that are as satisfying as they are nutritious—VeganBurg turns that fantasy into reality. The plant-based fast food joint from San Francisco serves up meat-free burgers with patties that incorporate fresh greens and other cholesterol-free, non-GMO (genetically modified organism) ingredients. For more local flavours, sink your teeth into its char-grilled satay (grilled meat skewers) burger. It’s a grilled soya patty, drizzled in rich peanut sauce, served with pineapple slices and cucumber in-between high-fibre buns. Order it as a meal and you’ll get a drink, as well as side options of seaweed fries or chopped broccoli. VeganBurg Singapore. 44 Jalan Eunos, Singapore 419502. +65 6844 6868.

Daily 11.30am-9.30pm.

Vegan interpretations of local delights and Western dishes

Loving Hut Loving Hut has the right idea when it comes to whipping up innovative vegan food. Strictly plant-based, the restaurant serves up Singaporean delights, such as Peranakan* fare like nonya mee siam (rice vermicelli in a sweet-spicy broth) and Teochew dishes like kway chap (broad rice sheets in soya sauce broth). If you’re craving Western dishes, there are vegan renditions of fish and chips, and chicken chop on the menu. Since it’s never too early to introduce the little ones to vegan food, Loving Hut’s kid-friendly menu features plates of tomato pasta and scrambled tofu sandwich.

*The term is an Indonesian/Malay word that means “local born”, which generally refers to people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage. Loving Hut. 229 Joo Chiat Road #01-01, Singapore 427489. +65 6348 6318.

Mon-Fri 11.30am-3pm, 6-9.30pm; Sat & Sun 11.30am-9.30pm.

Asian fusion meat-free dishes

Green Dot No meat, no problem—from rice bowls to customised bento (home-packed meal) to noodles, vegetarian cuisine is anything but boring at Green Dot. Tuck into the tom yum noodles, which dunks soya-based ‘mutton’, chunks of carrots and konnyaku (Japanese konjac) prawn in a fiery tom yum broth. For those who can’t handle the heat, opt for the signature rendang (braised meat cooked in coconut milk and spices) mushroom rice bowl. The savoury dish comprises lion mane mushroom, gong bao (stir-fried chicken and vegetable dish) mushroom, broccoli, vegetables, and is topped off with a sprinkling of seaweed flakes. Bedok Mall. 311 New Upper Changi Road #B2-31/32, Singapore 467360. +65 6386 6031.

Daily 11am-9pm. Paya Lebar Square. 60 Paya Lebar Road #02-15/16/17, Singapore 409051. +65 6702 2221.

Daily 11am-9pm.

Meatless Korean dining

The Boneless Kitchen At The Boneless Kitchen, your Korean dining experience goes beyond kimchi (Korean fermented cabbage) and bibimbap (Korean mixed rice with meat and assorted vegetables). Serving authentic flavours using ingredients directly imported from Korea, the restaurant doles out mostly vegetarian dishes. Choose from mains like mapa dubu (spicy tofu with rice) or japchae (stir-fried sweet potato noodles with vegetables) and complete it with Korean sides such as pan-fried tofu and seasoned spinach. Even the kimchi here is painstakingly prepared—without fish sauce or garlic.

The Boneless Kitchen is also great for dining in large groups, thanks to its Korean-style hot pots that are meant for sharing. Go for the beoseot jeongol (mushroom hotpot) or doenjang jeongol (soyabean paste hotpot)—they’ll fill you up for hours. The Commerze @ Irving. 1 Irving Place #01-31, Singapore 369546. +65 8457 6464.

Daily noon-9pm.

Wholesome grain bowls

Harvest

Gym bunnies and fitness enthusiasts looking for a fuss-free and delicious meal should look no further than Harvest.

Located along the bustling stretch of East Coast Road, this eatery serves up a range of grain bowls and cold pressed juices. Pick from a selection of lean sous-vide meats—from Norwegian salmon fillet to chicken breast—to accompany your base grain options of brown rice or soba.

Pro-tip: if you’re on a low-carb diet, you can turn your meal into a salad by replacing the grain options with baby spinach or romaine lettuce.

Harvest. 81 East Coast Road, Singapore 428785. +65 9670 2961.

Mon-Thu, Sat & Sun 11am-8.30pm.