Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/architecture/modern/here-is-sg/

Title: Here is SG

With its striking modern skyline, the waterfront district of Marina Bay is a regular stomping ground for shutterbugs, travellers and locals alike.

This bustling district is now home to yet another photo-worthy attraction—the Here is SG sculpture.

Located right at the Marina Bay waterfront, this 20-metre long sculpture is a must-see photo-spot. It is free and open to the public with its distinctive design that evokes both passion and infinite possibilities.

If you’re lucky, you’ll spot yoga enthusiasts working out around this public structure or meet fellow photographers looking for the most compelling angle of this Instagrammable spot.

Here is SG— where it all comes together

Take a walk around the sculpture, and you’ll find a point where the seemingly-abstract design comes together to form the SG Mark, which represents the spirit of Passion Made Possible.

More than just an island of adventure and activities, our nation comprises a host of passionate individuals from all walks of life who inspire, innovate and turn tomorrow’s possibilities into reality. In the same spirit, Here is SG is a collaboration between experts from diverse fields, embodying the sculpture’s creative concept, ‘Where It All Comes Together’.

Collaborators include contemporary art and design studio PHUNK, urban greening specialists Greenology and local woodworking consultancy Superstructure.

Sustainable by design

Besides being a landmark that offers visitors creative photo opportunities, ‘Here is SG’ embodies Singapore’s commitment to a more sustainable future, designed with minimal electricity usage and with a small carbon footprint.

The sculpture’s lush, wooden facade is made from 100% reconstituted timber— harvested from all parts of the tree to minimise wastage—while the native Pilea plants that adorn it absorb carbon from the air.

Visit this landmark at night, and you’ll find it illuminated by energy-efficient LED lights. This illumination has its energy needs met by solar panels that ensure Here is SG is fully self-sufficient.

At the heart of diverse possibilities

Whether you’re taking a pitstop on an urban cycling route or visiting to snap an iconic shot to commemorate your visit to Singapore, Here is SG makes a great base to start exploring the rest of Marina Bay.

For your first stop, consider dropping by the ArtScience Museum, which boasts mind-boggling exhibitions like FutureWorld—a wonderland of digital artwork and installations.

The museum is right next door to the Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands, where you’ll find luxury fashion, global brands and world-class retail experiences.

The mall also houses a range of acclaimed restaurants, including Bread Street Kitchen by Gordon Ramsay and Renku Bar & Lounge, where you can indulge in a tipple and savour Southeast Asian delights.

For more amazing photo opportunities, visit Gardens by the Bay—home to unbound greenery and unique landscapes. We recommend finding a perch atop the Supertree Observatory for an unforgettable view.

Alternatively if you’re in search for inspiration, you’ll find ample ways to spark your muse with the live performances at Esplanade –Theatres on the Bay or with the ingenuity on display at the Red Dot Design Museum.