Link: https://ninaoutandabout.ca/where-to-stay-in-singapore-the-ritz-carlton-millenia/#wrapper

Title: Honest Hotel Review: The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel in Singapore

Nina Out and About contains affiliate links and is a member of the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. If you make a purchase using one of these Amazon links, I may receive compensation at no extra cost to you. See my Disclosure Policy for more information.

Looking for a luxury hotel in Singapore? The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel is the best pick for you!

When I was in Singapore, I had the opportunity to stay at the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel beside Marina Bay.

This luxury hotel would have been way out of my travel budget considering I had just spent a month exploring New Zealand’s North and South Islands.

Fortunately, my mom was in the city for business so we snagged this amazing hotel room.

The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel is the best place to stay in Singapore.

Not only is it within walking distance to all of the main attractions in the city, such as the Cloud Forest and Marina Bay, but it’s also full of luxurious amenities. Even their breakfast buffet is by far the most incredible I’ve ever seen (and I’ve been around A LOT of breakfast buffets in my time).

With opulent rooms, views of the nightly light show, and incredible service, you won’t go wrong staying at the Millenia Hotel in Singapore.

Not convinced yet?

Read my honest experience staying at the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel. This is not a sponsored post. I’m not getting paid to write good things about the hotel. Every opinion is 100% my own.

An Honest Hotel Review of the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel in Singapore

5 stars! 10 stars! 100 stars!

Whatever the maximum number of stars is for a hotel, give them all to the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel in Singapore.

I loved my experience at the hotel so much that I decided to dedicate a full post to the experience, so other solo female travellers in Singapore can share in the luxury.

I can’t say enough good things about the hotel.

But I’ll balance this review: because it’s important to understand the potential negatives as well.

The main one is the cost. For budget travellers, this is a huge splurge.

Admittedly, all of Singapore is pretty dang expensive, so you’re likely going to splurge across the city-state anyway.

But, if you’re looking for a luxurious experience (and you’ve got some funds saved), the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel is definitely the place to stay!

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Image (c) Ritz-Carlton

About The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel in Singapore

Located in the Marina Bay district, the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel is in ritzy surroundings.

The hotel has direct access to all of Singapore’s main attractions, including the Cloud Forest and Gardens by the Bay, which are both located at Marina Bay.

Being right in front of iconic buildings like The Helix Bridge and the Marina Bay Sands make this hotel perfect for those interested in photography.

It’s one street back along a riverbank, giving you water views from every room which is nice if you’re looking for an outside experience.

Although the Marina Bay Sands is the more well-known hotel, I don’t find it as luxurious. Since it’s become overrun with tourists visiting to drink at the rooftop bar, there is less opulence in staying there.

The Millenia Singapore has retained its luxury status and regularly welcomes all manner of elite guests (and me in my H&M tees).

When you arrive at the hotel, you pull into a round drop-off. The stone pillars reach around you, blocking out the sun’s rays.

I remember seeing palm fronds and thinking that this really was paradise.

Inside, the hotel is even nicer. The foyer is spacious and blasts you with A/C the moment you walk in. After baking in the sun and feeling my organs sweating from the humidity, that first brush of cool air on my skin felt like heaven.

You have two options when you enter: turn right or left. Right, takes you to a lounge area and the elevators to the rooms.

Left takes you to the dining area.

Left was my favourite direction.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

The Location: Staying Near the Marina Bay

Staying near Marina Bay is a must in Singapore. This is the central location for all of the city-state’s main attractions.

I loved the ease of being able to get to everything by walking, even in the crazy humid heat of Singapore.

By using air-conditioned malls to help you carve a pathway through the humidity, you can explore the Helix Bridge, Marina Bay river tours, the Cloud Forest, Supertree Grove, the Merlion Statue, Raffles Hotel, and more!

You’ll only need a taxi if you’re going to the Night Safari at the Zoo or if you’re headed to Sentosa Island (although you can take public transport from nearby).

There’s even a hawker market located just across the street beside the floating football pitch!

You’re literally steps away from everything when you stay at the Millenia Singapore Hotel.

It made it so much easier for a solo traveller like me to get around safely and without withering in the heat.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Image (c) Ritz-Carlton

Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel Amenities

This hotel is ritzy through and through.

From the moment you step into the lobby to when you’re in your room, everything screams luxury.

I felt like I was in a glamorous movie every time I walked into the hotel. It’s just so beautiful!

… which probably meant I shouldn’t have only brought two pairs of pants for my week-long trip. Live and learn!

Visiting the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Singapore is like visiting a luxury resort. You’ll find so many amazing things to do throughout the hotel, that you could literally never leave and still have an epic vacation!

Among the amenities are a fitness centre, an award-winning spa, an outdoor pool, an augmented reality art tour (added after my visit), and a night safari for children at the hotel!

As the art tour didn’t exist when I visited, I can’t speak to it. And I’m not a kid so I couldn’t partake in the cool-looking night safari. So I’ll focus on the amenities I did get to enjoy.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

The Hotel Spa

A spa day wasn’t in the cards for this visit to the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel.

But I wish it was!

The spa has won awards for its epic massages, La Mer facials, and indulgent experiences. You can even get a massage featuring a private cello player!

If you’re looking for a romantic experience, look no further than the Ritz-Carlton Millenia spa.

They even have customized full-day journeys that are spa packages to experience the best of their services.

It isn’t cheap though!

A 1-hour basic massage will cost you $180. But I’m sure it’d be worth it based on the rest of my experiences at the hotel.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Millenia Fitness Centre

You know when you go on vacation and assure yourself that you’ll spend a few mornings in the gym?

Well, my mom did that. I think I tagged along once, often too worn out from exploring the city on foot in the insane humidity.

When I did join, I noticed how full-service the fitness centre is. It literally has all of the equipment you need – whether you’re into weights, cardio, or yoga.

I loved that there were more than one of each machine so I didn’t have to wait 20 minutes to get on a treadmill as you often have to at hotels.

I will say, the gym is much smaller than the hotel itself. However, it wasn’t an issue. We were the only people there!

And the few other times my mom went, she only bumped into one or two other people.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Millenia Pool

On a hot Singapore day, the best thing to do is to take to the water.

The Millenia Singapore has a private pool outdoors, attached to the fitness centre.

The pool is a beautiful oasis. There are palm trees flanking the pool. A cabana where you can get fresh drinks. And lovely loungers that are very comfortable.

However, this pool isn’t adult-only.

It was my only complaint, as when we tried to relax in the pool, a small child was splashing around and screaming with its family.

I’m not a kid person, so I know others are usually fine with this, but for me it’s frustrating.

Luckily, they didn’t stay long.

The pool is kept quite warm. So don’t expect a chilly refreshing swim. It’s more of a comfortable break from the heat.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Dining at the Millenia Hotel

The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Singapore is known for its food.

In fact, there’s a Michel-starred restaurant in the hotel!

Now, we never ate there, as we ventured to a Paranken restaurant with a Michelin-star that was further away with a family friend.

But we did walk past it daily.

Summer Pavilion is a Michelin restaurant. You’ll want to make a reservation early to ensure a spot for yourself.

Their Cantonese menu is said to be divine.

But what I preferred was the Colony area where the buffet was held.

The Colony area also serves lunch and dinner, although we never tried them. It wasn’t convenient with my running about the city to see as much as possible and our friends taking us to dinners. But when we walked by the dessert stand for dinners, I definitely wished we could gorge ourselves on the whole thing.

If you’re looking for cheaper meal options, the hotel is very close to the mall food court (an indoor hawkers market-style area) and outdoor hawkers markets. We preferred to go to these kinds of places to try Asian classics like Hainanese Chicken and Chilli Crab.

You can also stop by a shop in the lobby to get fresh baked bread and treats. Once again, you never need to leave!

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Image (c) Ritz-Carlton

Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel Singapore Buffet

The best part about staying at the Millenia Singapore was the buffet.

That’s saying something because this hotel was one of the best places I’ve ever stayed at.

You can book rooms with breakfast included. I highly recommend you go for that option, as breakfast isn’t a simple bowl of cereal.

The breakfast buffet winds through the dining tables to accommodate three stations in the main area and an entire alcove full of fresh food.

You can find Western classics, Eastern staples, sweets, fruit, and an array of other options.

The selection changes daily, so you’ll never be bored!

I often came away from breakfast with three empty plates and an inability to stand.

Breakfast became the best part of the day.

I sampled Asian delicacies from every ethnicity in Singapore. From Indian daal to Chinese congee to other amazing dishes I don’t even know the names for, all of it could be found at this buffet.

I think it’s designed to ensure that guests from around the world get the breakfast options they’re used to.

But I used it as an opportunity to explore global cuisine first thing in the morning!

There’s even a fresh waffle and eggs benedict station. And a whole dessert bar at breakfast!

I’m literally both salivating and bemoaning my previous overly full tummy at the same time!

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Image (c) Ritz-Carlton

The Rooms at the Millenia Hotel

When you think of where to stay in Singapore, the most important part is probably the room.

Amenities are nice, but they’re nothing if you don’t have a comfy bed!

Well, the Ritz-Carlton has some of the comfiest beds I’ve ever slept on.

My mom and I shared a “Club Deluxe Kalang” double room looking over the Marina Bay. Although we usually went outside to see them, you could get a great view of the nightly light show over Marina Bay from the elevator windows.

If our room faced the other direction, we could have viewed them from bed!

The room features two double beds, a large desk, a comfy couch (that honestly was big enough to be another bed), massive windows with a view over the city and Marina Bay, and a large TV.

The beds featured plush white duvets and overly fluffy pillows (if you have a sore neck, plan to get something firmer).

I passed out in that soft bed multiple times a day after maxing myself out in the heat.

The adjoining bathroom was my favourite part of the room. The giant tub was pressed against a large, circular window that looked out at Marina Bay Sands.

Although I usually only take baths when it’s cold out, I made sure to take a couple of baths just for the experience.

You’ll also find a shower with amazing water pressure and it’s big enough for you to dance in. (… I may or may not have tested that out with some tunes after a particularly sweaty walk around the city-state.)

Even the sink is incredible, with marble counters and a giant mirror. I think even 13-year old Nina could have managed to share that mirror, and she was a nightmare getting ready (I’m talking hair, make-up, the full nine-yards just to go to Maccas!).

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Image (c) Ritz-Carlton

Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel Room Price

I mentioned that I didn’t pay for our hotel in Singapore – and thank god for that. My funds at that point were still depleted from my two-month adventure in New Zealand with no job.

Although this beautiful room was worth every penny, I couldn’t have swung it.

Prices vary across the types of rooms (or suites if you’re feeling fancy), but a Club Deluxe Kalang room is $495 CAD per night.

There are a variety of other room styles to choose from.

You can select a suite, which comes with a separate living area. You’ll also get Club Level Access, which will allow you to go to the rooftop club area and view the city from the highest point.

A Kalang Room is a style of room where the living quarters and bed are combined.

You can upgrade to a Marina view, to have larger beds, to have one bed, or to have different layouts of the beds.

Prices vary by room.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

The “Crazy Rich Asians” Experience

I can’t say enough positive things about the Ritz-Carlton, Millenia Singapore hotel. I was blown away when I walked in and I’m still mesmerized by the memories.

The location perfectly centre between the major attractions, like the Fullerton Hotel and the Gardens by the Bay.

It was easy to get to and distinctive enough that, when I inevitably got lost trying to find the church from “Crazy Rich Asians”, I could find my way back from sight alone.

When you’re trying to decide where to stay in Singapore, remember to check out the Ritz-Carlton to get the full opulent, “Crazy Rich Asians” experience.

Click here to check the current prices to stay at the Millenia Singapore hotel!

Fun Things to Do Near the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel

If you’re planning on staying at this hotel, I can’t recommend checking out the area enough.

Although Singapore is generally a bit of a pain to get around (mostly due to the heat), this location makes it easy to enjoy both the Marina Bay Sands and Gardens by the Bay without too much hassle.

Check out these fun things to do nearby:

Gardens by the Bay

Marina Bay Sands for a drink

Fullerton Hotel for cake and to marvel at the interior

Cloud Forest

Supertree Grove

Marine Bay Light Show, nightly at

Singapore Flyer for a panoramic view of the city-state

Church from Crazy Rich Asians

Merlion Statue

Planning a trip to Singapore? Check out my week-long itinerary to make the most of the country!

Summary: Hotel Review of the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel in Singapore

The Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel is an amazing hotel located in the centre of Singapore.

The hotel features luxurious rooms with beautiful views of the city and Marina Bay Sands.

I highly recommend saving up so you can treat yourself to a luxury experience downtown. Whether you’re travelling solo, for business, or on a romantic getaway, this is the place to stay!

For more details about the hotel, click here!

What do you love most about the hotel? Tell me in the comments!

Related Posts:

Pin this for later!