Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/indoor-thrills-for-action-seekers/

Title: Indoor thrills for action-seekers

While the words “great outdoors” tend to conjure up images of exciting sports and gruelling treks through the wilderness, there are thrills and spills to be had indoors as well.

From voyages into the realm of virtual reality to smashing good times in a rage room, Singapore’s indoor activities provide endless ways for action-seekers to push their limits.

The Fragment Room—Get in touch with your wild side

Getting in touch with your emotions is generally a healthy experience…which is why you should channel your inner Hulk at The Fragment Room, Singapore’s first and only rage room. For the uninitiated, rage rooms give visitors the opportunity to smash, decimate and wreck various items in a safe space. You don’t have to be mad about anything to sign up though–the Fragment Room provides you with baseball bats and crowbars that’ll have you test your swing strength better than any golf range. Have a go at everything from bottles and vases to electronic appliances. Don’t worry about flying fragments—the space will provide you with a fully protective jumpsuit while you embark on your power-packed onslaught. The Fragment Room. 3 Balestier Road, Singapore 329671. +65 6291 1519.

Daily 1-10pm.

Xcape Singapore—Walk in the shoes of action heroes

Imagine being the protagonist of your favourite action movie. What would you have done differently? With Xcape Singapore, you can turn that fantasy into a reality.

The nation’s first and largest themed escape room brings your favourite movies to life, with 52 game rooms across 8,000 square feet. The rooms are decked out in props reminiscent of various popular media icons, ranging from the spine-tingling doll in Annabelle to the crowd-pleasing Kung Fu Panda.

Visitors will be given the opportunity to sleuth it out like Sherlock Holmes, and escape the room in a given time limit.

Xcape Bugis Village. 160A Rochor Road Level 2, Singapore 188435. +65 6337 4905.

Daily 11am-11.30pm.

Axe Factor—Hone your ‘axe’-llent accuracy