Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/indulge-yourself-in-singapore-a-special-guide/

Title: Indulge yourself in Singapore: A special guide

Notice: The 2021 FORMULA 1 SINGAPORE AIRLINES SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX has been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

We know you’ve worked hard for that well-deserved vacation to Singapore. Now, pamper yourself with all the luxuries our city has to offer.

Be enraptured by world class cuisine, sample our UNESCO Heritage-winning hawker food, or live the high life from atop Marina Bay Sands®. Depending on when you visit, you may be greeted by the roar of race car engines at the world’s first-ever Formula 1 night race, or be dazzled by the Christmas lights as you shop for fashion along Orchard Road.

If rest and relaxation are what you seek, our city is home to award-winning spas and tranquil green sanctuaries. Regardless of what you crave, you’re bound to find an experience to indulge in.

Stellar shopping options

Star-studded dining

Besides being a retail paradise, Singapore boasts a constellation of Michelin-starred restaurants that specialise in cuisine from all across the globe. Odette and Les Amis both carry the distinction of being 3 Michelin Star restaurants—and the elevated French fare found at both these establishments are well worth sampling. Other noteworthy mentions include Zén —which specialises in Scandinavian cuisine and shot straight to a 2 Michelin star ranking in 2019.

If you’ve fallen in love with local flavours, reserve yourself a table at Candlenut. Helmed by local chef-owner Malcolm Lee, the restaurant serves up Peranakan* fare and nonya staples with a modern twist. *The term is an Indonesian/Malay word that means “local born”, which generally refers to people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage.

Play hard

If you’d rather be out and about, hop from the bar to the dock and charter a yacht ride from ONE°15 Luxury Yachting. Soak up the sun while you’re out on the bay on a vessel that’s all yours for the afternoon, or cruise to Singapore’s Southern Islands for an escapade from the busy city. Don’t miss the quintessential luxury event in Singapore, the FORMULA ONE Singapore Grand Prix. Pro tip: head to the Paddock Club for the best F1® experience. The F1® parties also get as loud as the F1 cars’ revving engines—be sure to check out Amber Lounge, the night and day party where the coolest cats go to see and be seen.

Make time for R&R

All that travelling and exploring can tire out your muscles and skin. Rejuvenate at Sulwhasoo SPA, where their intensive facial treatment will give your exhausted skin a much-needed boost using Sulwhasoo’s Ginseng Renewing Cream and other top-of-the-line skincare products. Frazzled travellers can also head to Remede Spa at The St. Regis Singapore for calming respite. At Remede Spa, elegant marble décor greets you the moment you step through the front doors, truly setting the tone for the champagne, truffles, and customised wellness treatments to come.

Haute hotels