Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/international-champions-cup/

Title: International Champions Cup Singapore

Notice: The 2020 International Champions Cup is cancelled due to COVID-19 (Coronavirus Disease 2019).

Sports fanatics can expect thrills, spills and world-class football matches at the International Champions cup, an annual sports extravaganza that hosts top teams from around the world, as they face off at the National Stadium.

The 2019 competition featured Italian football clubs Inter Milan and Juventus, English Premier League titans Manchester United and the legendary Tottenham Hotspur, as they battled for pride and top honours. The event saw tens of thousands of football fans congregating at the National Stadium to roar their support for the four rival titans of the sport.

It was England versus Italy over the two days of fierce competition, with Manchester United edging out Inter Milan 1-0 in the pre-season exhibition tournament, and The Spurs beating Juventus 3-2 in a hard-fought victory. The latter was a match for the ages, with a jaw-dropping strike from near the half-line from Harry Kane sealing the Spurs victory.

Besides high-octane action, football fever also spread through the rest of the city, with a range of exciting activities off the pitch. This included live music performances, virtual reality games, face painting and exclusive merchandise.

Fans also had ample opportunity to meet their football heroes in the flesh, with autograph signing sessions and photo opportunities with stars from all four clubs. A dedicated fanzone at the stadium and pop-ups in the city offered football-themed games that allowed spectators to get in on the action and break out their own moves.

To make the most out of your stay in Singapore, be sure to download the Visit Singapore app for iOS and Android. This handy app will help you get your bearings, navigate our island’s bustling neighbourhoods and notify you on exciting events and activities to explore.