Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/travel-guide-tips/travelling-to-singapore/changi-airport-singapore/jewel-changi-airport/

Title: Jewel Changi Airport

While most people think of airports as places of transits and stopovers, Singapore’s Changi Airport is a must-see tourist attraction in its own right. Its latest extension— Jewel Changi Airport— transforms Singapore’s world-class aviation hub into a truly inspiring lifestyle destination.

Seamlessly linked to Terminal 1’s Arrival Hall and via pedestrian walkway from Terminals 2 and 3, this ten-storey nexus is a sparkling mix of dining establishments, top-notch retail and breath-taking spaces. Experience wonderment the moment you touch down in the Lion City, and discover a sample of Jewel Changi Airport’s sparkling array of lifestyle gems.

Urban ingenuity, tranquil nature

Discover how artistry and nature intertwines at Jewel Changi Airport. Designed by a consortium of world-renowned architects, this dome-shaped complex will house myriad breath-taking attractions that fuse nature with human ingenuity.

At this urban oasis, visitors will be able to marvel at the 40-metre-high Rain Vortex—the world’s largest indoor waterfall—and explore verdant nature amidst the 2,000 trees, of the Forest Valley.

With a range of facilities that are ripe for exploration, Jewel Changi Airport will redefine your notion of an airport, providing visitors with immersive attractions to explore. These include Foggy Bowls—mist-filled play areas that evoke the illusion of playing amidst the clouds—and a spectacular, 14,000-square-metre rooftop park that’s home to gardens, walking trails and play attractions.

Local and global cuisine

Besides offering feasts for the eyes, Jewel Changi Airport boasts a range of global and local fare to tantalise the taste buds of visiting foodies, with over 80 F&B outlets. Global brands include all-American staples burger joint Shake Shack, and beloved fast food chain A&W.

Visitors hankering for Singaporean cuisine will be able to sample local delights at a 350-square-metre restaurant by Violet Oon, the Lion City’s grand dame of Peranakan* cuisine.

*The term is an Indonesian/Malay word that means “local born”, which generally refers to people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage.

Retail that’s fit for royalty

For those who express their individuality through curated purchases and discerning buys, Jewel Changi Airport boasts a regal selection of world-famous brands and local artisanship. The space’s offerings are situated around the Forest Valley, which offer shoppers the opportunity to engage in retail while surrounded by lush greenery.

This dedicated area boasts Nike’s largest retail space in Southeast Asia, as well as artisanal local labels like Supermama. The latter’s range of ceramics and souvenirs are inspired by facets of Singaporean culture, making it a great destination for discerning shoppers looking for homeware that expresses their impeccable tastes.

Pop culture fans will be able to experience a blast from the past at Pokémon Centre Singapore, the brand’s only permanent retail store outside of Japan. Peruse a range of official merchandise—including toys, stationery and collectibles—which are bound to charm both the young and the young at heart.