Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/nature-wildlife/parks-gardens/jurong-lake-gardens/

Title: Jurong Lake Gardens

Nestled in the west of Singapore just a five minutes walk away from Lakeside MRT Station—and a twenty-minute drive from Singapore’s city centre—Jurong Lake Gardens is a must-visit for nature lovers of all stripes.

This lush, 90-hectare space is the third and newest of Singapore’s national gardens. Its first zone—Lakeside Garden—opened in April 2019, with the remaining two zones of Chinese Garden and Japanese Garden opening progressively from 2023 onwards.

Nature walks to remember

As you explore the grounds of this beautiful garden, you’ll find yourself surrounded by nature in all its verdant glory. Jurong Lake Gardens is home to thriving plant life, fauna and a whole host of memorable green spaces.

Explore the golden fields of The Grasslands—the perfect location for an Instagram snap— or be enchanted by the beauty of Alstonia Island, a flooded island that shares traits with a freshwater swamp forest.

If you’re looking for a quiet stroll, you can spend time taking it slow on the Rasau Walk—a meandering boardwalk along the water’s edge—or head off the beaten path along Neram Streams, a series of naturalised streams surrounded by aquatic plants and dragonflies.

As you stroll through the reserve, keep your eyes peeled for the squirrels, long tail macaques and smooth-coated otters that have made the gardens their home. The gardens are also home to a wide variety of butterfly species, from Plain Tiger butterflies to Chestnut Bobs.

Fun for the entire family

Besides being a haven for nature lovers, Jurong Lake Gardens is the ideal retreat for families.

The 2.3-hectare Forest Ramble is the largest nature-themed play space in the heartlands, and boasts 13 distinct installations for children. These range from slides and swings to suspended bridges and miniature trampolines in the shape of lily pads.

Other attractions include Clusia Cove—a charming play area that’s been built to simulate a coastal shore, with low sandy dunes and shallow water for little ones to romp in.