Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/coffee-roasters-in-singapore/

Title: Local cafes for lovers of coffee

Whether you’re an under-caffeinated foodie, a discerning connoisseur or just looking for a perk-me-up in the morning, Singapore is a great city for coffee lovers.

Our city is home to specialty cafes, hipster hangouts and artisanal roasters, all offering tantalizing blends of coffee that’re bound to get you buzzed.

Whether you’re looking to taste an award-winning cuppa, learn about the nuances of brewing coffee or discover new blends from across the globe, these local cafes are bound to sate your cravings.

Alchemist

Looking for a no-frills caffeine fix? Alchemist provides caffeine comfort for the bustling Central Business District crowd of Tanjong Pagar, concocting strong, honest coffee at its minimalist shopfront.

Using a single blend of Thailand-sourced Arabica Coffee that’s roasted fresh daily, Alchemist sees coffee-brewing as a science—following a formula that includes the perfect brewing temperature, right down to decimal placings.

Alchemist at International Plaza. 10 Anson Road #01-34, Singapore 079903.

Mon-Fri 8am-5pm.

For a full list of locations, click here.

Atlas Coffeehouse

Helmed by the team behind the famous Assembly Coffee, Atlas Coffeehouse offers both great coffee and delicious nosh at affordable prices. It’s no wonder that there’s usually a snaking queue, especially during brunch on weekends. There’s a whole range of coffee to pick from here, from espressos and affogatos to cold brews. Discerning coffee lovers will be able to pick coffee from their preferred origins, with beans sourced from Kenya, Colombia and Ethiopia. Peckish visitors can dig into a variety of brunch favourites—go healthy with the smashed avocado and watermelon, or dig into rosti with bacon fennel sauce and a cheese frankfurter. After your meal, take a stroll at the Singapore Botanic Gardens. Just three minutes away from the café, this UNESCO Heritage Site is filled with myriad flora and makes for the perfect reprieve. Atlas Coffeehouse. 6 Duke’s Road, Singapore 268886. +65 6314 2674.

Tue-Sun 8am-7pm.

Bearded Bella

With delicious food, gorgeous interiors, and award-winning coffee, Melbourne-inspired Bearded Bella ticks all the boxes for discerning foodies.

Regina Tay—one of the café’s co-owners—was the winner of the Singapore National Barista Championship in 2016, so you can rest assured that your coffee will be expertly brewed.

If you’re a stickler for flavour and fragrance, opt for the café’s house blend, which uses a proportion of 70% Ethiopian and 30% Honduras coffee beans.

Bearded Bella at Tanjong Pagar. 8 Craig Road, Singapore 089668. +65 9880 0775.

Mon-Thu 7.30am-5pm; Fri 7.30am-10.30pm; Sat, Sun & PH 7.30am-6pm.

Bearded Bella at Bukit Timah. 73 Hillcrest Road, Singapore 288945. +65 8201 2312.

Tue-Fri 7.30am-5pm; Sat, Sun & PH 7.30am-6pm.

Chye Seng Huat

Don’t let the name of this café fool you. The flagship store of home-grown roasters Papa Palheta, Chye Seng Huat Hardware Coffee Bar is one of the pioneers of Singapore’s hipster café craze. Located on the compounds of a former metal hardware store, the establishment is as famous for its industrial-chic décor as it is for its fragrant brews. Retro furnishing, a charming al fresco courtyard space and quaint metal fixtures make an afternoon here a trip back to Singapore’s yesteryears. Coffee lovers who’re fascinated by the process of coffee-making should take a seat at their 360-degree bar, where they’ll get to watch the baristas whipping up their drinks. We suggest going for the Black Cold Brew, made with beans from Ethiopia. Harvested on the Suke Quto farm, these beans are famous for their sweet flavour and floral aroma. Chye Seng Huat Hardware. 150 Tyrwhitt Road, Singapore 207563. +65 6396 0609.

Tue-Thu & Sun 9am-10pm; Fri & Sat 9am-midnight.

Nylon Coffee Roasters

Located in the tranquil housing estate of Everton Park in Keong Saik, Nylon Coffee Roasters is the perfect pitstop for hip travellers looking to explore quaint neighbourhoods. The coffee here is roasted with the aim of preserving the natural flavours of its naturally-sourced beans.

If you’re a latte lover, you’ll be chuffed to find that the restaurant’s concept of ‘Black and White’ Coffee allows you to choose the ratio of espresso to milk in your cuppa.

More than just a café, the establishment is also a champion of sustainable and ethical coffee production. Owners Dennis and Jin Ming spend several weeks every year travelling to eco-friendly coffee farms to procure their beans.

Nylon Coffee Roasters. 4 Everton Park #01-40, Singapore 080004. +65 6220 2330.

Mon, Wed-Fri 8.30am-5pm; Sat & Sun 9am-5.30pm.

Oriole Coffee + Bar

To expand your palatte with a selection of global flavours—and fuel up for a shopping spree at Orchard Road—pay a visit to Oriole Coffee + Bar. A café by day and bar by night, this popular establishment’s beans are roasted in-house and hail from smallholder farm communities across the Bean Belt, from Kenya to Costa Rica. The café also serves all-day breakfast, with items like smoked salmon rosti and espresso hotcakes. Visitors eager to learn more about the art of brewing a perfect cup of joe should sign up for one of the establishment’s coffee workshops. Classes include latte art workshops, courses on basic filter brewings and hands-on sessions on the basic skills of a barista. Oriole Coffee + Bar at Pan Pacific Serviced Suites Orchard. 96 Somerset Road #01-01, Singapore 238163. +65 6238 8348.

Daily 11.30am-10.30pm.

Sarnies

Located in the heritage district of Chinatown, Sarnies has built up a reputation among local coffee lovers, and has even been lauded by global travel magazine Lonely Planet. Caffeine lovers who prefer strong brews will certainly find satisfaction in the coffee at Sarnies, which are all made with a double ristretto for more intense flavours. A crowd favourite is their Guatemalan-blend Latte; featuring sweet and fruity tones on the surface, and a roasted, nutty aftertaste. If you’re feeling adventurous, ask the bartender to whip up an Orange Mocha for you—this off-the-menu item incorporates orange peel, and makes for a truly unique pick-me-up. When you’re done with your coffee, take a short stroll to the Thian Hock Keng Temple to get an equally satisfying culture fix. This age-old temple is dedicated to Mazu—the goddess of the sea—and its traditional South Chinese architecture is truly a sight to behold. Sarnies. 136 Telok Ayer Street, Singapore 068601.

Mon & Tue 7.30am-10.30pm; Wed-Fri 7.30am-midnight; Sat & Sun 8.30am-4pm.

Tiong Hoe Specialty Coffee