Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/history/history-museums/mint-museum-of-toys/

Title: MINT Museum of Toys

For those feeling nostalgic for their childhood, a visit to the MINT (Moment of Imagination and Nostalgia with Toys) Museum of Toys will help you relive some of your most cherished memories.

First opened in 2007, the museum was given a new lease on life, with extensive redevelopment work to all seven floors of the building in 2020.

With its reopening in November 2021, the space now boasts four thematic levels—named Outerspace, Characters, Childhood Favourites and Collectables—housing over 50,000 pieces of vintage toys.

The impressive collection—which was collected from over 40 countries and includes toys over a century old—belongs to collector and enthusiast Mr. Chang Yang Fa. The former electrical engineer aspires to put the MINT Museum of Toys on the world map, alongside institutions like Madam Tussauds and New York’s Museum of Modern Art.

More than just nostalgic playthings, the toys on display tell the story of the era in which they were created. Believed to be the largest of its kind in Southeast Asia, this trove is made up of various key collections, including the only known complete Batman robot toy, the only Mekon Mask from Dan Dare in existence and an ‘Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland’ Doll owned by Alice Liddell—the young girl that inspired the original ‘Alice in Wonderland’ novel.

The building’s basement is home to Vertigo26—a Listening Bistro devoted to the world of vintage vinyl—while the top level has been transformed into the Public Gallery, which combines a rooftop bar with a communal exhibition space for artists and curators from all walks of life.

Visitors hunting for a souvenir to commemorate their visit can pick up a Space Walk Man robot or vintage action hero figurines from the museum retail brand—MINT Shop. Keep your eyes peeled for the pushcart located at the entrance, alongside a display area featuring novelties and merchandise by Disney and Star Wars.

Stay safe while exploring our city’s many charms by keeping yourself updated on the latest safe distancing measures. Click here to find out more.