Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/the-citys-annual-music-festivals/

Title: Music festivals in Singapore

From live music festivals to dance extravaganzas that last all night, Singapore’s nightlife scene boasts an electrifying array of festivals and events that are certain to beguile music lovers of all stripes.

So get your squad together and check out the most exciting music festivals in the Lion City.

Live music and legendary performers

Sing Jazz If you’re a jazz and blues connoisseur looking for a night of soulful tunes, then Sing Jazz is definitely the festival for you. Held over three days at the iconic Marina Bay Sands®, the festival’s past editions have featured headliners such as Lauryn Hill, Jamie Cullum and Estelle. The ensuing festivities will give you the opportunity to party hard while supporting arts and culture—proceeds will go towards the foundation for Arts and Social Enterprise, which provides funding for budding jazz talents through Singapore’s Jazz Academy. Find out more here.

Baybeats If you’re curious about Singapore’s vibrant scene of local performers, be sure to mark this event down on your calendar. First launched in 2002 as a platform for homegrown talents and indie musicians, Baybeats is a three-day music festival organised by the Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay. The event has grown to become one of the most beloved fixtures of Singapore’s lively music scene. This music extravaganza features a diverse line-up of bands and artistes, playing everything from folk and pop to hardcore genres like metal and post-rock. If you’re keen on the latter, don’t be shy to jump in the mosh pit and rock out with your fellow metal heads. Find out more here.

Mosaic Music Series

As its name suggests, diversity is at the heart of the Mosaic Music Series, which features some of the most talented musicians from a variety of genres.

Formerly known as the Mosaic Music Festival, this exciting live music line-up is known for its dynamism, with an ever-evolving line up of musicians playing live sets all-year round.

Past acts include indie pop band Death Cab for Cutie, legendary jazz trumpet player Wynton Marsalis with the Jazz at Lincoln Centre Orchestra, and four-time Grammy-nominee Feist.

Find out more here.

Hydeout

Notice: Hydeout has been postponed to October 2020.

Taking place across two whole weekends, Hydeout is a must-visit for music lovers who dig diversity.

The region’s first multi-genre music festival transforms the green space of The Meadow at Gardens by the Bay into a multi-stage arena featuring some of the globe’s most talented bands, DJs and artistes. Whether you’re into the electropop hits of Rita Ora or DJ Snake’s hypnotic beats, you’re bound to find your groove at this festival.

Find out more here.

Parties from dusk till dawn

Neon Lights Neon Lights will be making a return after numerous successful runs from 2015-2019. Diversity’s the name of the game at this family-friendly festival, with past headlining acts including post-punk legends Interpol and iconic folk revival band Mumford and Sons. One of the most eclectic music and arts festivals in Singapore, Neon Lights offers more than just a stellar music line-up. Think three days of amazing tunes by international and local acts, accompanied by creative workshops and art installations held in the lush greenery of Fort Canning Park. Past editions of this family-friendly festival have included a wide range of activities for the kids, a silent disco and the E-Trackx Skratch Workshop, which taught participants all about turntables and old-school DJ-ing. It’s the perfect way to bond with your family and fuel your little ones’ creative sparks. Find out more here.

Legacy Festival

Get ready for a year-end EDM extravaganza with Legacy Festival, the new kid on the block in Singapore’s annual line-up of live music events.

The two-day, dusk-till-dawn festival debuted in December 2019 at Sentosa’s Siloso Beach, and featured a who’s who of international artistes and DJs, including Dutch dance phenom Don Diablo, acclaimed EDM DJ Tiësto and German duo Cosmic Gate.

Visitors can expect an experience that combines awesome music, digital art and immersive technology into a seamless sensory experience.

Find out more here.