Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/must-visit-museums-for-art-memorabilia/

Title: Must-visit museums for art memorabilia

In Singapore, art is more than what meets the eye. Galleries and museums here are not just places to be inspired, but also homes to distinctive memorabilia that you can collect. Curate well-designed pieces that reflect your personality, take home an art-inspired keepsake and keep it as a remembrance of your time on our island. The retail experiences that Singapore offers span far beyond the average mall.

Buy independent art

The burgeoning art scene in Singapore invites you to collect a diverse range of locally designed memorabilia that will appeal to your interests and passions.

Singapore Tyler Print Institute

Collect cutting-edge print art at the Singapore Tyler Print Institute (STPI). STPI is a space for experimentation in the mediums of print and paper. The institute collaborates with established and emerging artists to create contemporary, often evocative pieces.

Inspired by the gallery walls? The Corner Shop @ STPI allows you to own a piece of the work produced by artists at the in-gallery workshops. Besides its range of beautiful prints, the store also stocks a range of books, souvenirs and accessories for the budding artist.

Let your abode exude your individuality with the works of contemporary local artist Heman Chong, or deepen your love for traditional art with tomes that showcase the work of famed Singaporean painters like Hong Zhu An and Cheong Soo Pieng.

Singapore Tyler Print Institute. 41 Robertson Quay, Singapore 238236. +65 6336 3663.

Mon-Fri 10am-7pm; Sat 9am-6pm; Sun 10am-5pm.

Red Dot Design Museum If you're a lover of both aesthetic form and ingenuous function, then this Instagram-worthy venue should be at the top of your list. From lightings to parasols, the Red Dot Design Museum presents award winning products and design concepts from over 30 countries that have been recognised for their remarkable design. Head to the museum shop, where the design-conscious can collect innovative design objects and collectibles sourced from all over the world. Red Dot Design Museum. 11 Marina Boulevard, Singapore 018940. +65 6514 0111.

Daily 10am-8pm.

World class souvenirs in Singapore

Singapore is home to world famous exhibitions tours. Enjoy the perks of being in an international city and shop for famous exhibition-specific pieces.

ArtScience Museum™ Fusing art and science, the 21 gallery spaces of the ArtScience Museum™ at Marina Bay Sands® has previously displayed famous exhibitions from all over the world. Previous exhibitions include Human + The Future of Our Species—an exploration of human in a world of artificial intelligence—and The Deep, which featured a collection of over 40 weird and wonderful deep-sea animals. Head over to The Museum Shop for exhibition-inspired memorabilia and own a keepsake of the world’s most iconic exhibitions. ArtScience Museum™. 6 Bayfront Ave, Singapore 018974. +65 6688 8888.

Daily 10am-7pm.

Quirky collections

Step into exhibitions that feature curious knickknacks from the past and take home a piece of quirky memorabilia.

MINT Museum of Toys This quirky museum's marvellous collection of old-school toys is guaranteed to bring back a dose of nostalgia. See if you can spot Astro Boy, Popeye, Tintin, and other favourite characters from a bygone era. When you’re done marvelling at these vintage wonders, wander around the MINT Shop, which sells a collection of replica vintage tin-toys, traditional local games and contemporary museum merchandise. MINT Museum of Toys. 26 Seah Street, Singapore 188382. +65 6339 0660.

Daily 9.30am-6.30pm.

Singapore Philatelic Museum Fascinated by stamps? The Singapore Philatelic Museum features postage stamps dating all the way back from the 1830s. Enjoy this vibrant museum’s in-depth presentation of local and international postal history, and take a step back through history. Send Singapore-inspired postcards or collect miniature post-boxes from Singapore and around the world. Captivating mementos can be had at the museum store, which will make quirky decorations for your home or office. Singapore Philatelic Museum. 23-B Coleman Street, Singapore 179807. +65 6337 3888.

Cultural keepsakes

Go beyond conventional souvenirs and collect specially produced merchandise that encapsulate Singaporean culture.

The Peranakan Museum The Peranakan Museum is the go-to destination for Peranakan heritage and culture. Dedicated to Singapore’s Straits-born people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage, it houses what is reputedly the world’s finest collection of Peranakan artefacts. While you can’t take the Peranakan Museum home, you can take away the best of all things Peranakan just by visiting the charming True Blue Shoppe, located near the entrance of the Peranakan Museum. Be spoilt with a selection of traditional sarongs (traditional skirt made from wrapping a long fabric), fine antique jewellery and porcelain in vibrant hues. Regardless of taste, you’re bound to find memorabilia of Singaporean heritage to bring home. The Peranakan Museum. 39 Armenian Street, Singapore 179941. +65 6332 7591. Notice: The Peranakan Museum is currently undergoing a major revamp and is closed to the public from 1 April 2019. For more information on the redevelopment, visit here.