Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/see-do-singapore/arts/museums-galleries/national-gallery-singapore/

Title: National Gallery Singapore

The latest jewel in Singapore's art crown, the National Gallery Singapore is a visual arts institution housing an unparalleled collection of modern Singapore and Southeast Asian art.

Where history meets modernity

Fittingly located in the heart of the Civic District, the Gallery is housed in the City Hall and the former Supreme Court—two iconic buildings that have played a monumental role in Singapore's history. Utmost care was taken to ensure that preservation guidelines for these two national monuments were being upheld even as they were being remodelled into a state-of-the-art museum for the public.

Dedicated to curating a collection that will provide insights into the unique art, heritage and history in the region, the Gallery is a must-visit destination in Singapore. At 64,000 square metres, it is the largest visual arts venue in Singapore and one of the largest in the region.

Extensive Singapore and Southeast Asian art

The Gallery showcases more than 8,000 pieces from Singapore’s National Collection, making it one of the world’s largest and most invaluable public collections of Singapore and Southeast Asian modern art from the 19th century to the present day. The establishment proudly displays the works of some of Singapore’s most prominent local artists, including Georgette Chen, Chen Chong Swee and Liu Kang.

The collection also showcases significant artworks by top artists from both Southeast Asia and the rest of the globe. Notable art from the region include the works of Raden Saleh (Indonesia), Latiff Mohidin (Malaysia) and Nguyen Gia Tri (Vietnam), while international names whose works have graced this space include Yayoi Kusama and Mark Rothko.

Visitors can expect a variety of enlightening programmes including guided tours, artist talks, conversations with curators and lecture series to gain deeper insights into the exhibitions.

The National Gallery Singapore also houses Keppel Centre for Art Education— Singapore’s very first art education centre. Families and students alike will get to immerse themselves in a creative learning environment with a range of artful and active learning programmes and activities.