Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/nature-inspired-souvenirs-from-the-garden-city/

Title: Nature-inspired souvenirs from the Garden City

While Singapore is home to dozens of skyscrapers, the city is also known for the greenery that sprawls across the island. So it is only natural that Singapore-based jewellers, fashion designers and even fragrance makers are channelling our lush landscape into souvenirs you can bring home to mark your visit to this City in a Garden. For a one-of-a-kind gift, look no further.

Ong Shunmugam

Designer Priscilla Shunmugam is no stranger to the local fashion scene. Her contemporary womenswear label, Ong Shunmugam, is hot on the lips of many fashionistas here for vividly depicting the city’s rich heritage, marrying traditional Asian silhouettes with bold prints, and taking inspiration from local flora.

Taking cue from traditional kimonos, Ong Shunmugam pieces are distinguished by their structured yet airy nature, and often bear patterns inspired by flowers you’ll find across the island. Priscilla’s creations are odes to her Chinese and Indian heritage. Her sari, cheongsam, jumpsuit and midi-length bow-type dresses sport modern renditions of batik (a traditional Indonesian style of dyeing fabric that is also popular in Singapore) and traditional Chinese motifs, along with her distinctive affinity for brilliant colours.

Atelier Ong Shunmugam. 43 Jalan Merah Saga #01-76, Singapore 278115. +65 6252 2612.

Daily noon-7pm.

Choo Yilin

Inspired by Singapore’s rich heritage with jade, this award-winning fine jewellery retailer creates timeless pieces you can flaunt no matter the occasion. The label, catered to the stylish and sophisticated women of today, works with handpicked Type A Burmese jadeite and weaves it with modern accents such as gold and white rhodium. Get this “Jade by Choo Yilin collection”. Be the talk of any party with this Peranakan*-inspired jewellery line that incorporates jade and gemstones alongside floral embellishments in either rose gold, champagne gold or silver. Choose from dainty drop earrings or long necklaces to add elegance to your personal collection. *The term is an Indonesian/Malay word that means “local born”, which generally refers to people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage. Mandarin Gallery. 333A Orchard Road #02-23, Singapore 238897. +65 6733 1131.

Daily 11am-9pm.

Code Deco

Founded by master perfumer Gauri Garodia, this artisanal fragrance brand offers more than your run-of-the-mill scents. Spray on aromas of ginger snaps, the Tasman Sea or a breezy tropical beach with Code Deco’s collection of perfumes, which features feminine, masculine and music-inspired compositions. For fragrances inspired by Singapore’s tropical plants, check out its “Feminité” collection. It boasts scents such as nutmeg, a spice harvested from trees that used to be common in local Peranakan enclaves like Emerald Hill.

Get this “Eaux de Jasmine”. With this jasmine-based perfume, you can now leave the island by smelling just like the flowers you find here. This sensual fragrance is a concoction of white floral essence—mainly jasmine—and vanilla, with notes of citrus.

Orchard Central. 181 Orchard Road #02-22, Singapore 238896. +65 6238 1051.

Daily 10.30am-9.30pm.

Supermama

Minimalists and fans of intricate craftsmanship can feast on this brand’s catalogue. Supermama is a contemporary giftware shop that curates local and Japanese-designed homeware such as handcrafted wooden teacups, porcelain plates, toys, furniture and accessories—all in contrasting colours or striking designs. Get this “Singapore Icons: The Dancing Joaquim” . A tribute to Singapore’s national flower and the lady who bred this hybrid, this set of navy porcelain ware features a small plate, a sauce dish and a chopstick rest, which will lend elegance to any dining table. Supermama. 265 Beach Road, Singapore 199544. +65 6291 1946.

Daily 11am-8pm.

The Singapore Mint

The nation’s official mint produces coins, medallions and other currency-related collectibles. The institution also specialises in customisations: you can design your own figurines, cards and accessories like gold foil fridge magnets and key chains.

Get this“The Splendour of Native Orchids Series: Silver Proof Coin Set” is an ode to Singapore’s orchids. The set comprises ten fine silver proof coins that depict the many blooms of the Orchidaceae family, including the denbrobium secundum and bulbophyllum macranthum.

Chinatown Point. 133 New Bridge Road #02-18, Singapore 059413. +65 6222 2486.

Daily 11am-10pm.

For the full list of outlets, visit here.

The 1872 Clipper Tea Co.

Have a taste of the tropics with The 1872 Clipper Tea Co.’s assortment of tea blends. Founded in—you guessed it—1872 by Sri Lankan-born businessman Balage Porolis de Silva, the brand offers quality Ceylon tea brews that range from herbal to floral, in such flavours as masala chai (spiced tea), passion fruit and lemongrass. The brand also stocks tea blends inspired by tropical notes—the “Tropics Gift Set” comes with three types of tea in flavours such as passion fruit, mangoes and marigold flowers, the latter of which you can find in Singapore’s many parks. Get this “Singapore Orchid Gift Set” . This light and fruity selection consists of three Ceylon black tea blends with hints of ginger and cranberry. The aromatic fusions are finished with orchid petals for a finishing floral touch. ION Orchard. 2 Orchard Turn #B4-07, Singapore 238801. +65 6509 8745.

Daily 10am-10pm. For the full list of outlets, visit here.

Gardens Shop, Singapore Botanic Gardens

Once you are done admiring the blossoms, trees and lakes of the Singapore Botanic Gardens, pop by the UNESCO World Heritage Site’s official souvenir boutique to get your hands on all sorts of nature-inspired items. The Gardens Shop offers a wide selection of gifts, including confectionery, accessories, apparels and even plantlets.

Get this “Vanda Miss Joaquim Orchid Cushion Covers”. It is the perfect addition to any nature lover’s home. Featuring Singapore’s national flower, the Vanda Miss Joaquim, these linen cushion covers will brighten up any room.

Singapore Botanic Gardens. 1 Cluny Road, Singapore 259569.



Nassim Gate. +65 6467 0380.

Daily 8.30am-7pm.

National Orchid Garden. +65 6475 5104.

Daily 8.30am-6.30pm.

Tanglin Gate. +65 6475 1155.

Daily 9am-7pm.