Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/marina-bay-countdown/

Title: New Year's Eve Marina Bay Singapore Countdown

New Year celebrations in Singapore are an unforgettable affair, with endless activities filling our city’s bustling streets and fireworks illuminating the skyline.

While you’ll be able to soak in year-end celebrations all across our island, the Marina Bay Singapore Countdown is one of our island’s most iconic celebrations.

Read on for the lowdown on the celebrations and activities that await you this year-end.

Fireworks and dazzling illumination

After a two-year hiatus, fireworks will light up the Marina Bay skyline once more, with this year’s celebrations pulling out all the stops.

Returning to The Float @ Marina Bay, STAR ISLAND is a ticketed event on 31 December that promises a multisensory feast, with artisanal fireworks, dazzling pyrotechnics, state-of-the-art light and sound technologies, and theatrical performances. From 25 to 30 December, there will also be a STAR ISLAND prequel at the MBS Event Plaza, including pop-up stalls and family-friendly activities.

Visitors should also keep an eye out for Share The Moment, a showcase of original artworks adapted into light projections on two iconic facades – the Merlion and The Fullerton Hotel Singapore – from 26 to 31 December. With the theme of “City of Good”, these artworks have been done by students from local educational institutions, inspired by stories of individuals, organisations and leaders coming together to give their best for others.

Fun, Music and Festivities

What better way to usher in the New Year than by celebrating with friends and loved ones?

If you’re on the hunt for excitement with a strong dose of fun, drop by the BayFront Event Space from 1 December onwards for the Great Bay Fiesta. This exhilarating fair comprises four different highlights, including the stunts and shenanigans of performers from around the world at The Great Cirque des Cascades, a unique indoor ice and snow experience of Ice Magic: The Great Fantasy on Ice, nostalgic rides and games at The Great World Carnival, and lots of delectable street food and drinks at The Great Food Fiesta.



Alternatively, chill out with a picnic at After Hours @ The Lawn on 30 and 31 December. This is a lifestyle event featuring supersized games, live performances, and a food and drink bazaar. Across the road, a series of light installations will set the festive mood and provide Instagram-able moments along the Marina Bay waterfront promenade from 19 to 31 December.

Other events, both making much-anticipated returns, are Mediacorp’s Let’s Celebrate 2023 countdown concert at The Promontory on 31 December, and free music performances by up-and-coming bands at the outdoor theatre and indoor concourse of Esplanade Theatres on the Bay.

The New Year is all about new possibilities. Discover them all by downloading the Visit Singapore app (available on App Store and Google Play), and checking out our Traveller Essentials page.

These handy resources will help you get your bearings, update you on the latest happenings and provide you with a wealth of maps and city guides. Have fun exploring — and Happy New Year!