Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/nightlife-in-the-city/

Title: Nightlife in the city

Dance till you drop

Over at Clarke Quay, Attica is famous for its outrageous parties that attract a loyal local and international clientele. If you like your house music and people, sexy, this is the place to be.



A vital stop for any club goer has to be Zouk, which has set the pace for the nightlife scene in Singapore and the region for almost 25 years. One of the most famous clubs in the world, Zouk is acknowledged as one of the best by critics and clubbers alike.

Stunning views

For those who wish to enjoy their drinks while admiring Singapore’s stunning skyline, there are plenty of rooftop establishments to visit.

CÉ LA VI, perched at the SkyPark of Marina Bay Sands®, has built a dedicated following. It’s not hard to see why: Here, you can take in a 360-degree panoramic view of the Marina Bay area, and the city’s stunning skyline. Kickback at the bar area, chill with a cocktail or check out the al fresco Skybar to get the ultimate rooftop entertainment experience.

Over in Chinatown, dive into the sights and sounds of Potato Head Folk’s stunning rooftop bar which is famous for its excellent tiki-inspired list of cocktails, served in bamboo and coconut cups handcrafted in Bali.



Offering a panoramic view of Parliament, Marina Bay Sands® as well as the Civic and financial districts, Smoke & Mirrors attracts a gregarious office crowd nightly, which teems with numerous unique cocktails and bar bites, along with a wide selection of wines.

Another rooftop venue to check out is 1-Altitude. It is one of the highest rooftop bars in the world, standing at 282 metres above sea level. Located above its sister restaurant Stellar and indoor nightclub Altimate, this breezy bar also offers an unobstructed view of Singapore from the 61st to 63rd storey of One Raffles Place.

But if it is unique brews you’re after, head to LeVel33, officially the world’s highest urban craft-brewery in the penthouse of Marina Bay Financial Centre.

Shaken or stirred?

Fancy a good drink? Then you will be pleased to know a new wave of bespoke cocktail bars has sprouted across the island to cater to more refined taste buds.

We recommend you start your crawl at 28 HongKong Street, where you can find some of the best cocktails in town–just remember, reservations are required.

Here you’ll find drinks with names like Whore’s Bath and Modest Mule. The alcohol strength is indicated beside each entry on the menu, to help you pace yourself (which is certainly helpful). Top off the whole exquisite experience with the excellent bar food on offer here.

Another bar to check out is the ultra-modern Tippling Club. It recently released the world’s first edible cocktail menu, which lets guests try different alcoholic gummy bears before making their choice of cocktail.

Martini lovers should make a visit to Orgo, which sits atop the Esplanade. The bar is known for its impeccable concoctions by renowned Japanese mixologist Tomoyuki Kitazoe.

More creative cocktails can also be found in the historic Chinatown district, home to Bitters & Love and Jigger & Pony. The former is a friendly spot with an inventive drinks list to sample, while the latter is housed in a former art gallery that attracts a well-dressed crowd who come for the timeless, classic cocktails.

With so many watering holes to choose from, it’s time to raise a glass as night falls over the city.