Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/peak-performance-workouts/

Title: Peak performance – workouts in SG

Working out while travelling is a breeze in Singapore — Our city is home to a plethora of fitness options within arm’s reach, from world-class gyms to martial arts dojos.

Whether you’re looking to pick up a new sport or maintain your physique, these gyms, academies and fitness centres are bound to have you pumped up.

Barry’s Bootcamp

If a chiselled physique is part of your New Year’s resolution, look no further than Barry’s Bootcamp. This world-famous fitness franchise boasts a range of Hollywood stars as its clientele and specialises in High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT), which incorporates both strength and cardio into one compact session. These workouts are done in the studio’s iconic Red Room, with its elevated temperatures and a playlist of workout tunes to get the adrenaline pumping.

Climb Central More than just a test of upper body strength, rock-climbing is a great full-body workout that’ll test the limits of your endurance. If that sounds like an exciting challenge, Climb Central’s gym at the Singapore Sports Hub boasts the highest indoor climbing walls in Singapore, as well as a range of routes for greenhorns and veterans alike. First-timers needn’t feel daunted, as each beginner session comes with a comprehensive safety lesson.

Jal Yoga

If you’re searching for physical and mental balance, Jal Yoga is your destination. The studio offers both traditional and modern forms of yoga — from Ashtanga lessons to high-flying Aerial Yoga sessions — as well as Pilates and barre classes.

CLMB Studio Versa Climbing is a low-impact, full body workout that’s bound to have you burning those calories. The good folks at CLMB Studio have coupled this energising routine with vibrant lights and dance music, which makes the experience more thrilling.

Ascend Fitness

More than just a fitness studio, Ascend Fitness is an immersive workout that incorporates a snazzy, futuristic environment, sophisticated motion sensors and 4D graphics to get you fully immersed.

Videogame-esque challenges will help you keep track of your progress during your workout session and have you feeling like the hero in a sci-fi movie.



The Ripple Club If you’re looking to get your blood pumping while going easy on your joints, consider signing up for a session at The Ripple Club. This unique training programme offers a variety of aquatic fitness activities that will have you working out on stationary bikes, channelling your inner boxing champ, or engaging in an intense circuit while immersed in a swimming pool.

Evolve MMA One of the most famous Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) gyms in the region, Evolve MMA is known for its dedicated trainers and world-class fighters. Whether you’re looking to pick up the ancient martial art of Muay Thai, dabble in freestyle wrestling or learn the intricate chokes and holds of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, you’re bound to get fighting fit at Evolve MMA’s gyms.

BBOUNCE Add some pep to your step (literally) with BBOUNCE, Singapore’s first rebounding fitness studios. These unique workouts employ the use of mini-trampolines to enhance the gains you get from cardio and strength training. Besides being loads of fun, rebounding also burns twice as many calories as a regular run.

Wing Chun Kuen Training Centre

Hailing from China, Wing Chun shot to global recognition thanks to the popularity of Donny Yen’s Ip Man films. The martial art emphasizes open-hand strikes, grounded stances and fighting in close quarters.

You’ll be able to pick up the basics of this complex form at Wing Chun Kuen Training Centre, under the tutelage of Sifu Chua Kah Joo’s knowledgeable instructors.