Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/nature-wildlife/singapore-islands/pulau-ubin/

Title: Pulau Ubin Island

Nature and history intertwine on Pulau Ubin, located off Singapore’s north-eastern coast. Just a 15-minute bumboat ride from Changi Point Ferry Terminal, this tranquil island sanctuary is a popular haunt of nature lovers and day trippers unwinding from the bustle of the city.

Originally known as Pulau Batu Jubin (Granite Stone Island in Malay), this 1020-hectare island’s granite quarries once provided the stone used to construct structures like the Istana and the Singapore-Johore Causeway.

Visitors to the island will be able to admire these historical sites, alongside coconut rubber plantations, fish farms and Singapore’s last-remaining kampong (traditional village).

Besides being a window into Singapore’s past, Pulau Ubin is home to diverse habitats and a variety of wildlife. Take a day trip to this beautiful island, and discover all the beauty that it has to offer.

Nature in all its glory

As you explore this emerald island, you’ll find yourself traversing a multitude of habitats, from seagrass lagoons to mangroves teeming with wildlife.

Seeing all that Pulau Ubin has to offer can be daunting on foot, so be sure to rent a bike from the stores that dot the main jetty.

We suggest heading along the eastern trail, towards Chek Jawa Wetlands. This ecosystem is a confluence of six distinct habitats, including coastal forests, rocky beaches and a mangrove swamp. Keep your eyes peeled for fiddler crabs, red junglefowls and mudskippers, among many other wondrous creatures.

On your way to Chek Jawa, be sure to drop by the Ubin Fruit Orchard, which houses over 350 trees heavy with durians, mangroves and breadfruit.

Before you leave, be sure to visit Pekan Quarry for a picture-perfect moment at sunset. Located just a 15-minute walk away from the jetty, this former quarry is now a beautiful lake, surrounded by lush greenery and home to otters, dragonflies and various species of birds.

Exploring the great outdoors

Outdoor activities abound on Pulau Ubin, ranging from camping and hiking to challenging bike trails.

If you’re planning to spend the night on this idyllic island, camping sites can be found all across the island. Jelutong campsite is a short walk 6 minutes west of the jetty, but more adventurous visitors can head northeast to the Maman campsite or west towards Endut Senin beach.

Adventurous bikers and thrill seekers can head further west towards Ketam Mountain Bike Path. This trail snakes across 10 kilometres, with challenging slopes and rock-littered descents that will prove to be a challenge for even the most seasoned sports enthusiast.

Pulau Ubin Day Trip—A packing list

First-time visitors to Pulau Ubin should check out this list of items to bring along for their day trip:

1) Money: The bumboat to Pulau Ubin costs S$6 per person to and from the island, while bicycle rentals (available from stores along the jetty) cost S$6-20. Remember to bring sufficient cash!

2) Insect repellent: To avoid mosquito bites. You may also want to wear shoes instead of sandals or slippers.

3) Water and sunblock: Singapore’s tropical climes make for a great way to get your dose of Vitamin D, but do remember to hydrate and take care of your skin.

4) Camera: Beautiful sights abound on Pulau Ubin, and amateur photographers may want to bring along a camera to capture the moment.