Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/nature-wildlife/fun-with-animals/rainforest-lumina/

Title: Rainforest Lumina

Take a walk in the wild, and uncover the stories and sensory treasures of nature with Rainforest Lumina. The first such experience in Southeast Asia, Rainforest Lumina was first launched by the Singapore Zoo in 2018, as part of its 45th anniversary celebrations.

Visitors can expect to be enthralled by a mesmerising audio-visual experience that takes place across ten picturesque zones within the Singapore Zoo, and evokes the lush, luminous world of the rainforest at night.

Merging story and setting, Rainforest Lumina features a distinctive narrative, centred on the theme ‘We Are One’. Visitors will get to meet the Creature Crew, a group of eight virtual animals—each with their own special virtue— who will take you on a magical adventure like no other. Interact with these heroic animals, and discover how humanity and nature are interlinked, and how each of us has a vital part to play in sustaining life on earth.

With Rainforest Lumina’s 3rd season—which runs from July 8 2021 to February 13 2022— visitors can expect to be immersed in dazzling laser displays along luminous pathways and marvel at the countless pixel lights at the Shimmering Islands.

At the enhanced multimedia Water zone, be captivated by Bob the Otter, as he prances around his playground, displays his mastery over the weather, and conducts a symphony of light and sound orchestral music, in tandem with the spectacle of a simulated thunderstorm. Or pay a visit to the Treetops zone, where Tairee the White Tiger will welcome you to his habitat with an adorable song and dance routine.

Befriend these magical creatures and the rest of the crew as you play, sing and discover the enchanted world of Rainforest Lumina. For wherever the Creature Crew roams, the rainforest blooms with wonder.

To learn more about this event and grab your tickets, check out rainforestlumina.mandai.com