Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/reasons-to-visit-singapore/

Title: Reasons to visit Singapore in 2021

Photos featured may have been taken before COVID-19.

With its century-old temples, bustling hawker centres and lush green spaces, Singapore’s varied charms are bound to enchant visitors to our island. Our city’s calendar of events is equally diverse, and present travellers with ample opportunities to explore, indulge and express their passions.

From the glitz and glamour of the Grand Prix Season Singapore to the flavours and fragrances of the Singapore Food Festival, here are 10 reasons to consider a trip to Singapore.

1) Indulge in world-class eats

2) Feast on new flavours at our food festivals

Eating is undoubtedly our nation’s past-time, and visitors can share in our love for food and drinks with an array of exciting events and festivals. Local dishes such as kopi (traditional local coffee), satay (grilled meat skeweres) and chilli crab take front and centre stage at the Singapore Food Festival, and alcohol connoisseurs can deepen their appreciation for artisanal liquor, cocktail making and mixology at the Singapore Cocktail Festival.

3) Discover inspiring art every where

4) Find your muse at our annual cultural events

At Singapore’s annual cultural events, you’ll find artists, actors and writers of every stripe coming together to share new perspectives and works of art. The M1 Fringe Festival, Singapore Art Week, Singapore International Festival of Arts and Singapore Writers Festival are just some of the many inspiring events that await visitors.

Traditional festivals and celebrations abound in Singapore as well, from the pounding drums and riveting river races of the Dragon Boat Festival to feats of religious devotion during Thaipusam and the kaleidoscope of colourful personalities at Chingay Parade.

Many arts festivals and organisations—including the Singapore International Festival of Arts 2021—across the island have embraced exciting new digital and virtual formats, which can be accessed from all across the globe. Be sure to check them out online if you’d like a sample of our island’s thriving arts and culture.

5) Party till dawn in a city that never sleeps

From hidden watering holes to some of the region’s hottest clubs and bars, Singapore’s nightlife is more than just a scene—it’s an opportunity for adventure. 12 Singaporean bars made the list of Asia’s 50 Best Bars 2021, with Jigger and Pony coming in at number two on the list. Other establishments include the 1920s-inspired Manhattan, secret oasis 28 Hong Kong Street and NATIVE, which serves up cocktails made from regionally-sourced produce and spirits. If you’re looking to get your dance shoes on, Singapore’s buzzing nightclubs include popular haunts like Zouk. This stalwart of the local nightlife scene now offers spin classes and night time movie screenings as part of their exciting line-up.

6) Live it up at electrifying music festivals

Whether you’re a rock and roll fan, a jazz hound or an irrepressible raver, Singapore’s jampacked annual calendar of music and dance events are bound to get you stoked. From inspiring concerts like the Singapore International Piano Festival to local musicians rocking the stage at Baybeats, music and dance lovers can look forward to more groove and good vibes. Be sure to check out the calendars of popular performance venues like Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay and the Victoria Theatre Concert Hall for a more comprehensive line up of 2021’s events.

7) Surpass your mental and physical limits

Daredevils and thrill-seekers alike will get to overcome their limits with the plethora of adrenaline-pumping activities. Enjoy the thrilling movie-themed rides at Universal Studios Singapore, conquer your fear of heights with a bungy jump at Skypark Sentosa by AJ Hackett, and test your agility at Singapore Wave Park. Push your endurance to new heights at Climb Central Singapore, discover a dynamic new workout at the Singapore’s Sports Hub, or gather your family and friends at the trampoline park–the choices are endless.

8) Roar with the crowd at thrilling sports spectacles

More than just a display of physical prowess, competitive sports are a showcase of will, discipline and mental fortitude. The Lion City hosts a range of exciting annual sports that shine the spotlight on athletes from all across the globe. The revving of car engines echo throughout our city centre every year with the Grand Prix Season Singapore, while the roar of sports fans fills our stadiums during annual championships like the HSBC Singapore Rugby Sevens.

9) Make a fashion statement

Singapore’s legacy as a global metropolis lives on in the modern day, with its trove of international brands and artisanal local products. From the shopping paradise of Orchard Road and Marina Bay Sands to the hip boutiques of Katong/Joo Chiat and Tiong Bahru, there are ample opportunities for fashionistas to shop for goods that express their individuality. Recent times have seen a whole slew of new malls opening across our island, including the majestic Jewel Changi, the futuristic retail hub Funan and Design Orchard—which houses wares by inspired Singaporean artisans. Keep an eye out for annual festivals that feature both great deals and festive vibes. Depending on the time of the year you visit, you’ll be able to shop for traditional Chinese snacks during Chinese New Year, or pick up a precious gift for your loved one during Christmas on A Great Street.

10) Discover hidden sights and new horizons