Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/self-care-guide-singapore/

Title: Relax with self-care activities in Singapore

Self-care is essential for travellers of all ages, from intrepid backpackers to tireless professionals. Singapore is home to a whole host of spas, gyms and tranquil spaces for travellers looking to slow down and smell the roses.

Whether you’re feeling frazzled from business meetings, fatigued from long plane rides or just looking to pamper yourself, these activities are bound to make you feel brand new.

Rejuvenating spas

Banyan Tree Spa Marina Bay Sands Situated on the 55th floor of Marina Bay Sands®, Banyan Tree Spa offers treatments to rejuvenate one’s body and mind. Unwind with their full-body massages, calming baths, and facials—all within an oriental-inspired setting. To be pampered like royalty, opt for the Harmony Banyan, which features two therapists working in unison to knead away your body’s aches and pains. Hotel Marina Bay Sands. 10 Bayfront Avenue Tower 1 Level 55, Singapore 018956. +65 6688 8825.

Mon-Thu & Sun 10am-11pm; Fri & Sat 10am-1am.

Auriga at Capella Singapore

The first spa in Singapore to receive five stars from Forbes Travel, Auriga offers spa retreats and treatments that use traditional, organic techniques to nourish both your mind and body.

The establishment features a full suite of wellness treatments to pamper weary visitors, from Balinese, Thai and Shiatsu massages to manicures and body-sculpting.

Here’s a fun fact: Their signature treatments correspond with the different phases on the moon. Visitors on a repeat visit will get a completely different treatment, depending on whether the moon is waxing or waning.

Capella Singapore. 1 The Knolls, Singapore 098297. +65 6591 5023.

Daily 10am-10pm.

Invigorating workouts

Yoga Movement

You don’t have to be a guru to tap into the centuries-old benefits of yoga. Instead, drop by Yoga Movement to sweat it out and improve your flexibility. Conducted by friendly and experienced teachers, the sessions here include a range of different yoga practices, from hot yoga to power flow.

When you’re done with your invigorating sessions, treat yourself to a coffee at partner cafe Common Man Coffee Roasters—located just below the studio—and enjoy conversations with fellow yoga enthusiasts.

Yoga Movement at Robertson Quay. 22 Martin Road #02-01, Singapore 239058. +65 6262 2414.

Mon-Fri 7am-8.30pm; Sat & Sun 8.30am-6pm.

For a full list of studio locations, click here.

Ritual Busy travellers who’re pressed for time but looking to get a quick dose of self-care for the body can drop by Ritual. This innovative establishment prides itself on having you in and out of the gym in 30mins with a full body workout. The best part? You don’t have to bring anything but yourself—clothes, shoes and shower amenities are all provided for visitors. Ritual at Crown at Robinson. 140 Robinson Road #03-01, Singapore 068907. +65 6584 9469.

Mon-Fri 6.30am-8.30pm; Sat 9am-3pm. For a full list of gym locations, click here. All first-timers are required to book a 30-minute introduction session before moving on to the actual workout.

Urban and natural beauty

Coast-to-coast Trail A newly opened 36km trail that spans almost the entire Singapore, the Coast-to-Coast Trail is a route for those to immerse themselves in nature’s beauty and forget about their everyday worries. The trail cuts through some of Singapore’s most beautiful green spaces, connecting 18 parks and nature areas from Jurong Lake Gardens in the West to Coney Island in the Northeast. Those looking for just a taste of Singapore’s verdant nature don’t have to complete the whole hike—public transport is readily available across multiple parts of the trail. To view or download the online guide, click here.

Wholesome food

Shake Farm HQ

A regular haunt of gym bunnies and health food fans, Shake Farm’s food is filled with wholesome goodness. You are what you eat, and the wholesome fare you’ll find at this eatery will have you feeling in the pink of health.

The dishes here are selected based on calories and nutrients, and caters to various diets from keto and low-carb to vegan and paleo.

As its name suggests, the highlight of this eatery is its shakes, which include Breakfast, Protein and Detox versions for visitors looking to get a quick fix of goodness. For a more substantial meal, sample their multigrain toast, served with healthy fruits and spreads.

Shake Farm HQ. 126 Telok Ayer Street, Singapore 068595. +65 9187 4407.

Mon-Fri 8am-11pm; Sat & Sun 9am-4pm.

Alter Ego

If you can’t choose between delicious flavours and eating clean, have the best of both worlds at Alter Ego.

Located at Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay, this charming eatery boasts a menu that is split between sinful comfort food—like cheese sandwiches and southern fried chicken skins—and wholesome fare like fresh salmon poke bowls and healthy salads.

To mix and match, we suggest visiting in the evening for dinner, when both menus are available.

After you’re done with your meal, take a stroll along the bay at the Esplanade Outdoor Theatre—local musicians abound on the weekend, and you’ll be able to relax, unwind and indulge in some great tunes.

Esplanade Mall. 8 Raffles Avenue #01-13D, Singapore 039802. +65 6327 9301.

Mon-Fri noon-11pm; Sat & Sun 11am-11pm.