Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/recreation-leisure/resorts/resorts-world-sentosa/

Title: Resorts World™ Sentosa

Be prepared for a wild time at Resorts World™ Sentosa, an integrated resort experience that will keep the whole family enthralled.

A major highlight for the young and the young at heart is the Universal Studios Singapore theme park. Enter the world of the silver screen at the park’s seven movie-themed zones, filled with exhilarating rides and outdoor shows, and where beloved movie characters like Shrek and Elmo come to life.

There are myriad attractions to pick from, including the adrenaline-pumping Battlestar Galactica: HUMAN vs CYLON™ rollercoaster, the thrills and spills of the Jurassic Park Rapids Adventure™ and the immersive Revenge of the Mummy™.

Wet and wild fun

Visitors with a love for the ocean and aquatic themes will be mesmerised by the Marine Life Park™. This 20-acre park is a great place to experience an aquatic adventure, with three thrilling attractions for the entire family.



Venture beneath the depths of the waves at the S.E.A Aquarium™—the world’s largest oceanarium houses over 100,000 marine animals across 50 distinct habitats, from leopard sharks and manta rays to giant pacific octopuses. Alternatively, drop by Dolphin Island to get up close and personal with the establishment’s Indo-Pacific Bottleneck Dolphins.

The Marine Life Park™ is also home to Adventure Cove Waterpark™, where you can drift away the afternoon on a lazy boat ride, snorkel with over 20,000 fishes or navigate the twists and turns of an aquatic-themed maze.

Round up the night with a beautiful display of water, fire and light at the Lake of Dreams™, a dazzlingly choreographed show by Emmy Award-winning art director Jeremy Railton.

The resort is also home to a casino that opens round the clock. Here, you can channel your inner James Bond at the Casino Royale Bar, while kicking back with a martini or two (shaken, not stirred).

Take a load off your feet

Dining at Resorts World™ Sentosa is as much about novelty as it is about nosh. You can pick up souvenirs and rock-themed apparel at the iconic Hard Rock® Hotel, admire the depths of the ocean’s beauty while dining on fresh seafood at Ocean Restaurant by Cat Cora or enjoy fine dining in an unpretentiousl environment at table65 by renowned chef duo Richard Van Oostenbrugge and Thomas Groot.

If you’re looking for accommodation that’s right on the doorstep of new adventures, consider a relaxing stay at one of eight uniquely-themed hotels. Beach Villas™ offers a suite of tropical sanctuaries with a view of Singapore’s beautiful coastlines, while Equarius Hotel™ is right on the edge of verdant tropical rainforests.