Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/walking-tour/shop/retail-therapy-orchard-road/

Title: Retail Therapy: Orchard Road

Singapore’s retail street is a treasure trove of finds that will help you exude your unique personality.

With a wide array of options, visitors can enjoy a bespoke shopping experience tailored to suit any taste and budget. Start your retail journey at Tanglin and wander through the heart of our country’s shopping belt towards Dhoby Ghaut, with each district offering a diverse mix of shopping experiences.

All venues are near the Orchard, Somerset and Dhoby Ghaut MRT Stations

Fun for the whole family at Tanglin

Tanglin Mall

Located along Tanglin Road, 1 Tanglin Mall is just a stone’s throw away from the iconic Orchard Road, offering a bevy of family-friendly experiences under one roof. Wander through the House of Anli, which offers European homeware for the perfectly curated living space of your dreams. Choose from a collection of artisanal cutlery and linen that matches your personality.

Look out for Motherswork Baby & Kids, a shopping emporium where you can pick out the best products for your children. Because you don’t compromise on quality, take home a host of international award-winning children’s brands and accessories, like toys and maternity wear. Up your parenting skills with aids that will help your child learn and soar beyond their potential.

Local and International buys at Orchard Road

Scotts Square

Walk down to Scotts Road where you’ll find the Hermès flagship store at 2 Scotts Square.

Pick up iconic Hermès products, and be inspired by Aloft, the in-house art space, and the store’s window installations, which are refreshed every season with artwork by different artists. You may even bag an installation that’s to your taste!

In Good Company

At Orchard Road, satisfy your taste for the contemporary, sleek and minimalistic from the curated collection amassed by 3 In Good Company. Here is where collectors celebrate their taste with this local brand that carries womenswear, accessories, and even a ‘mini me’ collection of kidswear for the trendy young tots to mirror your style.

TANGS

Founded over 80 years ago, 4 TANGS has gained a revered reputation as being one of Singapore’s most iconic departmental stores. This household name is loved by locals and visitors alike, with an extensive collection of big-name brands to local gems all under its iconic glazed green roof. To make an undeniably bold statement, pick up a bag from Singaporean designer Ling Wu, or a spiffy summer suit from Benjamin Barker.

ION Orchard

With its striking modern architecture and façade of glass, marble and steel, ION Orchard's status as one of Singapore’s most glamorous shopping malls is evident before you even step into the building. You’ll find luxury brands like Prada, Louis Vuitton and Harry Winston on levels 1 to 4, and popular street fashion brands like Zara, G2000 and Levi’s on the four basement levels.

Vibrant retail spaces at Somerset

Apple Orchard Road

Southeast Asia’s first 5 Apple store is found in the heart of our shopping belt in a two-storey tall, elegant glass structure. Here is where you can be a part of the tech savvy global community with their latest gadgets, or attend regular workshops headed by local creatives, such as iPhone photography.

Malmaison by The Hour Glass

Just beside the Apple Store is the temple of luxurious decadence known as 6 Malmaison by The Hour Glass. This 8,000-square-feet emporium is an ornately furnished mecca of opulence, evidenced from the lingering scent of Cire Trudon candles and gentle tinkling from 14th century music boxes in the air. Shop for your next statement timepiece by indulging in their bespoke services to help you pick out dapper gentlemanly attire, millinery and fragrances.

Mandarin Gallery

Ladies, cross the street and pamper yourself at Victoria’s Secret’s flagship store in 7 Mandarin Gallery. Be adventurous because this 12,000-square-feet duplex gives visitors access to the full range of the brand’s coveted lingerie, fragrances, beauty and body care products. Check out Victoria Sport, the brand’s athletic line, and PINK, a special varsity-inspired collection for young girls and women.

Design Orchard

To discover apparel, accessories and souvenirs that are proudly made in Singapore, make Design Orchard the next stop on your list. This vibrant enclave and retail space is home to over 60 homegrown brands like fashion retailer Minor Miracles, homeware brand PhotoPhactory and AIO (exclusive to Design Orchard), purveyors of skincare solutions.

Style up at Dhoby Ghaut

Plaza Singapura

Round up your shopping trip at Dhoby Ghaut. Step into Ray-Ban’s first Singapore store at 8 Plaza Singapura and find your style with the most extensive range of the iconic brand’s offerings that you can find in the city.