Link: https://www.wanderlustchloe.com/italy-road-trip-itinerary/

Title: Routes, Maps, Tips + More: 2023 Guide

From the stunning scenery of Lake Como and the culture, art and beauty of Florence and Rome, to the epic views along the Amalfi Coast and traditional Italian towns of Puglia, this Italy road trip has it all!

Road tripping past vineyards, dramatic coastlines and historic cities sounds like a pretty perfect holiday doesn’t it? When it comes to European holidays, Italy is always one of my top recommendations. I love the views, the buzz, the people. And don’t get me started on the food – I mean, delicious Italian cuisine for brekky, lunch and dinner? That’s enough of a reason to visit in itself!

Whether you’re interested in art, architecture, history, food or fashion, a trip to Italy will no doubt appeal. Spend leisurely days floating beneath the Rialto Bridge in Venice on a gondola, window shopping in Milan’s boutiques, standing where gladiators once fought in the Roman Colosseum or staying in a traditional Trulli house in Puglia.

Cinque Terre, Italy

And the best part about an Italy road trip? The freedom! You don’t have to stick to the obvious routes. While I’ve created an Italy itinerary on the maps below, I’d encourage veering off course from time to time. That’s when you’ll find the hidden gems, the towns the tourists don’t know about, and no doubt some delicious Italian food too.

It’s also worth remembering that some of the interior parts of the country are as pretty as the coasts, with vineyards, sunflower fields and gorgeous hilltop towns. Going on a road trip means you’re pretty much guaranteed to see some of the most beautiful landscapes in Italy too.

So, rather than create one epic Italian road trip, I’ve divided it into a northern Italy road trip and a southern Italy road trip. That way you can just pick one and break the country up into manageable chunks. Got a while? Join the two up and continue down the coast from Rome to Milan.

Click through to take a look at each itinerary, and figure out which one is right for you…

The Ultimate Italy Road Trip Itinerary From driving along the Amalfi Coast and enjoying traditional pasta in Puglia, to enjoying lake views in northern Italy and the incredible canals of Venice, it's time to plan the ultimate Italy road trip! The Ultimate Northern Italy Road Trip: Routes, Sights, Guides, Maps And More From the stunning scenery of Lake Como, dramatic coastlines of Cinque Terre and the canals of Venice, to the culture, art and beauty of Milan, Florence and Rome, it’s time to plan the ultimate northern Italy road trip! Continue Reading The Ultimate Southern Italy Road Trip: Routes, Sights, Guides, Maps And More From the vibrant city of Naples and the awe inspiring views of the Amalfi Coast, to the traditional Italian towns of Puglia and Sicily’s beaches, volcanoes and cuisine, it’s time to plan the ultimate southern Italy road trip! Continue Reading

When Is The Best Time To Visit Italy?

Italy has a Mediterranean climate and is a lovely destination to visit all year round.

Temperatures vary by region, but as a quick example, you can expect average temperatures of around 0°C in around Cortina (a ski resort in the mountains) in January, and as high as 37°C in July in cities such as Milan and Venice. Temperatures in the south remain mild in winter, making destinations like Puglia and Sicily great options for a winter holiday.

If you’re wondering when is the best time to visit Italy, I’d suggest planning a trip between April and June, or in September or October, just after the peak summer season.

The weather tends to be consistent in these months, but isn’t too hot. Plus, as you’re missing peak season, you should benefit from lower prices and fewer people.

What to pack for your road trip

If you’re wondering what to pack for your trip, this guide to road trip essentials has you covered. From portable chargers to ways to stay entertained on long journeys, it’ll help you create your road trip packing list.

I hope you’ve enjoyed checking out my Italy road trip itineraries! Let me know where you decide to go and what your highlights are…

Enjoyed this post? Pin it for later…