Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/running-routes-in-singapore/

Title: Running routes in Singapore

Whether you’re a fitness enthusiast or nature lover, zipping around Singapore on foot is a healthy way to work up a sweat, while exploring some of the island’s most scenic spaces.

With our city’s gorgeous parks, lush greenery and verdant nature trails, you’re bound to find a plethora of attractions during your run. Gear up in your active wear, get those running shoes laced, and check out these five routes.

Singapore Botanic Gardens

Start Point: Botanic Gardens MRT Station

End Point: Tanglin Gate (near Orchard Road)

Distance: ~4km With its status as Singapore’s oldest gardens and the country’s first UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Singapore Botanic Gardens is at the top of our list. Verdant nature trails and well-marked paths make this route suitable for joggers and nature lovers of all ages. Start at Botanic Gardens MRT, and run past the Eco Lake and Healing Garden. Keep a look out for Symphony Lake—you may be lucky enough to catch an outdoor arts performance at the Symphony Stage. Stop to smell the ‘roses’ at the National Orchid Garden— home to over 1,000 orchid species. After the Ginger Garden, another pit-stop can be made at the Bandstand, which features the garden’s iconic white pavilion. Proceed to Swan Lake, where you can next take a break to admire the still water against the greenery of the park. If you’re feeling peckish, grab a bite at The Halia, before continuing towards the end point at Tanglin Gate.

Fort Canning

Start Point: Fort Canning

MRT Station End Point: Fort Canning MRT Station (loop) or Dhoby Ghaut MRT

Distance: ~2km If you’re a history buff, Fort Canning is an ideal spot to take a jog. Formerly known as Bukit Larangan (Forbidden Hill), the site is steeped in history and filled with artefacts and sights dating back to Singapore’s colonial era. Begin your run at the Battlebox museum, a former military underground complex that was used by the British in the defense of Singapore during World War II. While you’re there, keep an eye out for the 9-pound cannon—this artefact was once fired to warn citizens of town fires during the colonial era. Take a break and enjoy the tropical weather at the Fort Canning Green, a popular open space that plays host to carnivals, outdoor theatre performances and concerts. Look out for the spiral staircase as you make your way to Dhoby Ghaut MRT—this hidden gem is popular among local photographers looking for a scenic backdrop.

Marina Bay District

Start Point: The Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay

End Point: Marina Bay Sands®

Distance: ~4km With its futuristic architecture and unforgettable views of our city’s modern skyline, the district of Marina Bay is a great spot for urban explorers to work up a sweat. Start at the Esplanade, Singapore’s performing arts venue. If you’re jogging in the evening, you may catch strains of live music from the establishment’s outdoor theatre. Continue your jog along the spacious stretch adjacent to The Float at Marina Bay—The world’s largest floating stage. Zip across the Helix Bridge, and run towards Gardens by the Bay, a verdant space that’s home to cooled conservatories, majestic SuperTrees and myriad wonders of nature. If you find yourself tantalised by the scent of local cuisine at Satay by the Bay, don’t resist the urge to make a pitstop for a quick bite. Conclude your run and enjoy the sunset at Marina Barrage. The space is popular with picnickers and kite-flying families, making it a great place to people-watch while you stretch and cool down.

Southern Ridges

Starting Point: Marang Trail (Mount Faber Park, Harbourfront MRT Station, Exit D)

Ending Point: Labrador Park MRT Station

Distance: ~5km Discover paths less travelled, hidden gems and verdant greenery as far as the eye can see with a jog along The Southern Ridges. Lush forests, sandy beaches and diverse fauna await you along this trail. Start on the Marang Trail at Mount Faber Park, and immerse yourself in forested terrain, filled with Saga and Angsana trees. Your jog will take you upslope to Mount Faber Hill, where you’ll be treated to views of the Southern Islands, with cruise ships dotting the horizon. If you plan to linger a little longer, take a break at the Jewel Box’s Arbora and Dusk, and fuel up with a quick snack. Be sure to stop by the iconic 274m-long Henderson Waves—the tallest pedestrian bridge in Singapore is known for its iconic, wave-like structure, and is a popular haunt of local photographers. Slow down to a jog when you reach the elevated Forest Walk of Telok Blangah Hill Park, before exiting at the Alexandra Arch. Keep a look out for the Berlayer Creek signage, and you’ll be on the right track to Labrador Nature Reserve. During the last stretch of your jog, you’ll pass by scenic landmarks such as the Dragon’s Teeth Gate and the Red Beacon, so be sure to have your smartphone or camera ready.

Rail Corridor