Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/secret-bars-and-speakeasies-singapore/

Title: Secret bars and speakeasies in SG

Besides clubs and drinking spots, Singapore’s nightlife scene is also home to hidden bars and charming speakeasies. Experience an unforgettable night out with our guide to these secret watering holes.

28 HongKong Street Arguably the pioneer of hidden bars in Singapore, 28 HongKong Street is an institution in the local bar scene. Pro-tip: Keep a lookout for a light over a nondescript door to find the entrance. Recently ranked at 49 on the Asia’s 50 Best Bars List, this iconic bar doles out tantalizing tipples like the Black Forest Negroni and Guava Spice Margarita.

Roxy

Tucked away along the loading dock of the Sail at Marina Bay, Roxy exudes a retro charm that hearkens back to the heyday of rock n’roll. The cocktails here are inspired by the genre’s legendary bands, tunes and performance venues, from the New York Dolls Sour to Smoke on The Water.

The Elephant Room

The Elephant Room celebrates Singapore’s rich culture with drinks that pay homage to the colourful neighbourhood of Little India. Ingredients here are freshly sourced from Tekka Market, while concoctions like Sinhala Coffee and The New Mango are inspired by the flavours of Indian cuisine.

The Dragon Chamber

Hidden behind a beer fridge and camouflaged behind the façade of a coffee shop, The Dragon Chamber conjures up images of gambling dens and secret haunts. East Asian décor abounds, alongside fusion eats inspired by Chinese cuisine and imaginative cocktails like the Earl Grey Old Fashioned and the blue-pea infused Blossom Soda.

Mama Diam A homage to Singapore’s old-school provision stores — colloquially known as ‘mama shops’ — Mama Diam is a trip down memory lane, with its marble tables and walls adorned with old-school murals. The cocktails here evoke local flavours like pandan, halia (ginger) and sour plum, while the dishes are plated to resemble hawker classics.

Sago House

A cosy, hole-in-the-wall affair on the third floor of a traditional shophouse in Chinatown, Sago House is truly a labour of love. The bar’s trio of founders built 80% of its interior by hand out of upcycled materials, and the menu here changes constantly, based on the seasonality of local ingredients.

Stay Gold Flamingo Stay Gold Flamingo takes on a whole different vibe come nightfall, transforming from a charming café into a bar that oozes rock n’ roll vibes. Dig into comfort food like fried oysters, mushroom tacos and pork collar, and indulge in tasty tipples like the Aperol Kombu Spritz and citrusy Garibaldi.

Taylor Adam

Hidden behind the storefront of a bespoke tailor shop, hidden cocktail bar Taylor Adam is certainly an elusive destination for cocktail aficionados.

The cocktails here are inspired by destinations across the globe, but since you’re in The Lion City, we recommend sampling locally-inspired concoctions like the Peranakan Sunset, made with gin from the local Brass Lion distillery.