Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/singapore-chefs-signature-desserts/

Title: SG chefs and their signature desserts

From traditional pastries to modern desserts, Singapore is a paradise for foodies with a sweet tooth. Our guide to local desserts will introduce you to some of the most toothsome treats in the city, as well as the Singaporean bakers and pastry chefs who craft and conceive them.

Mohammad Al Matin — Le Matin Patisserie

Mohammad Al Matin’s culinary journey has taken him to some of the world’s finest kitchens, from Noma in Copenhagen to Restaurant Andre. This passionate pastry chef has now struck out on his own, dishing out kouign amann, smoked cruffins and other delights to his legion of fans.

Ana Fong — Tong Heng Traditional Cantonese Pastries

One of the most popular bakeries in Singapore, Tong Heng has been whipping up their signature egg tarts for generations. 4th generation owner Ana Fong continues the family legacy of baking these delectable golden goodies with recipes true to their Cantonese roots.

Genevieve Lee — Sourbombe Bakery

A finalist on the first season of Masterchef Singapore, Genevieve Lee has tapped on her passion for baking to start Sourbombe Bakery, which specialises in Italian-inspired doughnuts, tarts and Danish pastries. Sample classics like the Basque Burnt Cheesecake, or opt for locally-inspired flavours like kaya (coconut jam) with soy caramel.

Zhao You Ning — Old Amoy Chendol

Inspired by his grandfather —who used to serve chendol (iced dessert made with green rice flour jelly, coconut milk and palm sugar syrup) from a pushcart along Amoy Street — Zhao You Ning left his business in China to recreate a taste of his childhood. Old Amoy Chendol now serves up a classic rendition of this beloved dessert.

Cheryl Koh — Tarte by Cheryl Koh

For Michelin-worthy desserts and pastries, look no further than Tarte by Cheryl Koh, a spin-off bakery from the world-renowned Les Amis Group. Helmed by feted pastry chef Cheryl Koh, the tarts, cakes, and other sweet treats here are inspired by her culinary journey through the kitchens of various Michelin-starred restaurants.

Louisa Lim — Odette

Three Michelin-starred restaurant Odette has a deserved reputation for dishes that are as beautiful to look at as they are to taste. Pastry chef Louisa Lim’s keen eye for detail and skill at harmonising contrasting flavours can be tasted in creations like the Ardeche Chestnut, a reinterpretation of the classic Mont Blanc.

Maira Yeo — Cloudstreet Hailed as the region’s best pastry chef by Asia’s 50 Best Restaurants 2022, Maira Yeo is the creator of the inspired desserts at local Michelin-starred restaurant Cloudstreet. Maira’s contemporary creations eschew conventional recipes, incorporating unique ingredients like celeriac and deep-fried capers.