Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/walking-tour/shop/shopping-kampong-gelam/

Title: Shopping at Kampong Gelam

Kampong Gelam

All venues are near Bugis MRT station

Havens of heritage

Collect a vial of custom fragrance by artisans who have honed their crafts for generations.

1. Jamal Kazura Aromatics

Enter an old-school perfume establishment for carefully blended scents to add to your collection. Possibly Singapore’s most well-known perfumery, 1 Jamal Kazura Aromatics will customise a signature scent for you–that’s if you haven’t already fallen for their readymade options. Be spoilt for choice at this quarter-century family-run business, where glass shelves are lined with jars of fragrant oils from all over the world.

2. Sifr Aromatics

2 Sifr Aromatics is an experimental offshoot by third-generation owner Johari Kazura. Here you can experiment with more innovative scents, ranging from oud (agarwood) to ambergris and bergamot, to create a perfume that channels the inner you. Shop for handmade and affordable, high-quality body balms, scented candles and vintage perfume bottles.

Independent and international labels

Kampong Gelam is chock-full of hole-in-the wall boutiques, where you can find tastefully curated fashion and homeware.

3. Fickle Store

While you may not associate the words ‘flip-flops’ and ‘fashionista’, 3 Fickle Store is likely to have you changing your mind. This charming establishment gives visitors the opportunity to customise their very own pair of footwear for their beach vacation in sunny Singapore. Flex those creative muscles, folks!

4. The Humble Man

From shirts designed with floral motifs to panama hats that come in arresting rainbow hues, 4 The Humble Man stocks a range of apparel for gents who appreciate bold fashion statements. Peruse racks of smart-casual ware, and discover a piece that shows off your playful side.

5. andwelldressed Studio (along Bali Lane)

Ladies looking to exude elegance and classy modernity can take a gander at the dresses, jewellery and accessories from 5 andwelldressed. The wares here exude a sense of understated elegance, making them perfectly suited for any wardrobe.

6. Goodluck Bunch (along Bali Lane)

Nestled within a charming, two-storey shophouse along Bali Lane, 6 Goodluck Bunch sells a selection of curated accessories and fashionable wares sourced from across the globe.

Trendy sneakers from Sweden, minimalistic backpacks from Japan and hip baseball caps are just some of the treasures you’ll find here.

Fabrics and homeware

The outskirts of Kampong Gelam house textile shops and charming homeware stores. Buy a yard of lace, peruse craft materials or find a special knickknack to add colour to your living room.

7. Kin Soon – Minton House of Ribbons

Shelves here overflow with colourful ribbons that suit every taste and occasion, whether you’re creating a dreamy wedding scrapbook project or perfecting your fearsome Halloween costume looks. 7 Kin Soon – Minton House of Ribbons is a wonderland for the creative minds.

You can come here if you are looking for a specific material—satin or organza ribbons, faux pearls, and even strings, ropes and twine. No fret if you don’t have a material in mind—simply browse through the collection to find one that matches your personality and project, from the wide array of ribbons and strings available. Go down the aisles and be inspired to customise your clothes and bridal gowns. And because the store is also a wholesaler, you can even find an entire roll for as low as a dollar.

8. SCENE SHANG (Beach Road)

Looking to spruce up your home? Look no further than 8 SCENE SHANG— Asian culture and the aesthetics of the 1930s fuse into an elegant, seamless blend at this furniture and homeware store.

From elm wood benches that evoke Singapore’s yesteryears and elegant scent diffusers to art prints inspired by Asian culture, you’re bound to find a treasure for your abode.

9. Molkan Fabrics

Shop at 9 Molkan Fabrics, a long-standing shop that stocks a bit of everything from cotton, lace, satin and more. Local dressmakers still come here to pick up fabrics by the yard or metre. If you’re a budding seamstress, be inspired to create your own look from the wide array of colours and textures on display. Select textiles that are unique to the region, choose plain or printed fabrics or ask the knowledgeable store assistants for help if you have a particular type of look that you’d like to create.

If you want to take home a traditional ethnic outfit, why not get one made by a seamstress here? Create a traditional Malay attire like the songket suits made from silk or cotton fabric interwoven with intricate patterns using metallic threads or baju kurung, which is a traditional two-piece Malay costume, all from pre-stitched fabric that only require tailoring to suit your size.

You can buy fabrics that have been largely pre-constructed and take them to a seamstress who will be able to customise the design and size to your liking.

Go down the aisles and be inspired to customise your clothes and bridal gowns. And because the store is also a wholesaler, you can even find an entire roll for as low as a dollar.