Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/shopping-for-kids-in-singapore/

Title: Shopping for kids in Singapore

Every family’s journey is filled with laughter, joy and learning. Create new memories with your loved ones, with these six children’s retail stores in Singapore that are bound to bring smiles to your kids’ faces.

For toys and treasures

Bricks World—the biggest LEGO store in Singapore.

Spark your kids’ imaginations, and set them on the road to expressing their individuality at Bricks World, Singapore’s largest and most established LEGO retailer.

Bricks World has an extensive range of both old and new Lego sets and figurines that draw on pop culture and your kids’ favourite fantasy worlds. These range from Disney princesses to the inimitable characters of Star Wars.

If you’ve fond childhood memories of playing with LEGO, you’ll be chuffed to find that this store houses vintage collectables that you won’t find in other departmental stores. This includes a super old model of James Bond’s Aston Martin LEGO set.

This establishment’s vibrantly-hued space also boasts a play area for your tykes to get creative and build LEGO castles with family and newfound friends.

Bricks World Flagship Store at ION Orchard. 2 Orchard Turn #04-15, Singapore 238801. +65 6634 0952.

Daily 10.30am-9.30pm.

For a complete list of Bricks World stores, click here

Toys “R” Us—enchanting generations of children.

Explore a wonderland of toys at Toys “R” Us, an establishment that’s been captivating the young and the young at heart for generations.

Whether you’re looking for toy cars, dolls or bicycles, this emporium of curios and playthings is sure to stock it. Brands stocked here range from the ever-iconic Barbie dolls to Transformers figurines and classic board games like Monopoly.

Toys “R” Us Flagship Store at VivoCity. 1 Harbourfront Walk #02-182/3, Singapore 098585. +65 6733 0190.

Daily 10am-10pm.

For a complete list of Toys “R” Us stores, click here.

For your little bookworms

Woods in the Books—handpicked books and storytelling sessions. Develop your little ones’ sense of ingenuity and imagination at Woods in the Books. Nestled within the heart of Tiong Bahru, this enchanting bookstore’s interiors are adorably adorned with hand-drawn illustrations. Aesthetics aside, the establishment is filled with hand-picked picture books and children’s stories, individually screened by the owners themselves. Titles range from classics like The Little Prince by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry to local favourites like the Sherlock Sam Series by husband-wife duo A.J. Low. Besides being a repository of wondrous tales, the store regularly hosts kid-friendly events, such as storytelling sessions and puppet plays. Be sure to check their calendar to discover a range of imaginative events. Woods in the Books. 3 Yong Siak Street, Singapore 168642. +65 6222 9980.

Mon & Sun 10am-6pm; Tue-Fri 10am-7pm; Sat 10am-8pm.

My Greatest Child—pocket-friendly deals, books from around the globe. A store that’s made it into the good books of local parents, My Greatest Child is a decade-old bookstore that sells children’s books at pocket-friendly prices. The establishment’s collection numbers at nearly 1000 books, flown in from countries like Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. We recommend checking out their award-winning titles, which include Swimmy and Polar Bear, Polar Bear, What Do You Hear? My Greatest Child at City Square Mall. 180 Kitchener Road #B2-03, Singapore 208539. +65 6509 8921.

Daily 10am-10pm. For a complete list of My Greatest Child stores, click here.

For kids with a passion for fashion

The Elly Store—Homegrown brand that offers up hipster looking prints for children. One of the joys of being a parent is helping your kids doll themselves up in all sorts of cute outfits. For children who love standing out with style, The Elly Store is your best ally. The local brand is known for their adorable prints and patterns, created for children from 0-12 years of age. To add a dash of local colour to your little ones’ wardrobes, we recommend purchasing them a mandarin-collared shirt or cheongsam (traditional Chinese dress with Manchu origins). The shop also stocks an impressive range of shoes, framed artworks and plushies shipped in globally. Their Jellycat plushies are a favourite among parents and children. The Elly Store at Cluny Court. 501 Bukit Timah Road #02-31/33, Singapore 259760. +65 6466 8718.

Mon-Sat 10am-7pm; Sun 10am-6pm.