Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/singapore-cocktail-festival/

Title: Singapore Cocktail Festival 2023

Heads (and bottoms) up, alcohol aficionados! The Singapore Cocktail Festival (SCGF) 2023 returns to the heart of the city this year, bringing you the the best bartenders and tipples from across the globe.

Now in its 9th year, this celebration will bring guests a whole range of exciting activities, from tasting sessions and cocktail-making workshops to in-depth insights from top bartenders.

If the excitement is starting to make your head spin, fret not— We’ve got you covered! Here’s the lowdown on SCGF 2023.

Merriment at the Festival Village

Happening from 5-7 May, SCGF’s Festival Village is back with a bang, bringing cocktail aficionados three buzzing days of fun and excitement at the Bayfront Events Space.

Visitors will be able to sign up for artisanal spirit tastings and insightful sessions with headling bartenders from our sunny island and across the globe. Headlining bars this year include a who’s who of names from the 2022 list of the World’s 50 Best Bars, including Indulge Expeimental Bistro, Penicillin and Maybe Sammy.

Beside these events, visitors will be able to indulge in a range of activities, from cocktail brunches to bar crawls and showcases of artisanal spirits. Don’t forget to grab a snack from the food street and catch a scintillating programme of live music and entertainment.

A city-wide celebration

If your thirst for festivities remains unquenched, we’ve got good news for you — This year’s edition of the Singapore Cocktail Festival lasts all the way from 5-21 May, with SGCF’s City Takeover.

45 cocktail bars across the Lion City will be participating in the City Takeover, and serving up a range of delectable, limited-edition cocktails. Beside tasty tipples, you can expect to celebrate bar tours, boozy brunches and exclusive promotions.

This city-wide celebration of cocktails is bound to tantalise your palate with new flavours, so be sure to snap up your passes for this exciting event. You’ll be able to pick from a single-day pass, a three-day pass and an artisanal tasting card which entitles you to sample four artisanal spirits at the Festival Village.