Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/singapore-favourite-pop-culture-events/

Title: Singapore's favourite pop-culture events

The vibrant city of Singapore boasts a diverse calendar of events that takes no breaks.

Beside traditional celebrations of our many ethnic and religious groups, you’ll find festivals that’ll appeal to everyone from comic fanatics to dance aficionados.

If you’ve got a passion for something out of the ordinary, you’ll find your fellow flock in Singapore.

Geeks and gamers

A huge deal for fans of Japanese pop culture, the C3 Anime Festival Asia (AFA) is an annual affair held every November that attracts throngs of cosplayers decked out in elaborate costumes. Not only will you find like-minded enthusiasts here to discuss your favourite anime characters with, you can also trade or purchase rare collectibles at the AFA’s many booths. Past editions of the festival have also featured live concerts from J-rock and J-pop artistes, which means you’ll have ample opportunity to croon along with your favourite anime tunes.

For fans of Western comics, check out the Singapore Comic Con (SGCC). Held every September, SGCC features numerous comic artists, toy labels and gaming competitions—not to mention the colourful cosplayers decked out as superheroes and villains. After taking wefies with your favourite characters, head to the toy section, where world-renowned designers like Joey Spiotto will readily beef up your autograph collection.

Eat, drink and make merry

For those who prefer their beverages fizzy, cold and alcoholic, Beerfest Asia is the place for you. Hundreds of breweries, from household names to cult favourites, descend upon the F1 Pit Building every August to pour out new, rare and exclusive brews. It’s far from a stuffy tasting event. Live bands rock out on stage, while revellers climb atop tables, pint glass in hand, to dance the night away. Of course, you’re welcome to join them or indulge in your own style of merrymaking.

The Singapore Cocktail Festival, which happens in the second quarter of every year, is one of the most happening weeks in the city. Held across a ‘festival grounds’ and numerous bars around the city, this high-spirited event invites imbibers to let their hair down, rub shoulders with celebrity bartenders and, of course, get tipsy on quality tipple. For those who want to learn how to shake up great cocktails at home, the festival’s many workshops should do the trick, too. More good vibes await at the Magners International Comedy Festival, where local and international comedians turn various bars around the island into barrels of laughs. 2019’s edition of the festival saw performances from local comedians like Jinx Yeo and Stephanie Chan. Grab a seat in the front row and you might be the butt of their next joke—which will serve as the perfect icebreaker for meeting new people in-between sets.

The Singapore International Festival of Arts (SIFA) won’t make you laugh, but it will set you thinking. The festival is known for its experimental and provocative plays, dances, visual arts exhibitions and other performance arts shows that deliver powerful themes that change on a yearly basis. Dozens of shows run from late June to early September, so there’s plenty of time to soak in its thought-provoking artistry and entertainment

The great outdoors

One of the best-attended contemporary festivals in Singapore, the yearly Singapore Night Festival is typically held every August and spans the entire city centre. Take a stroll through its visual showcases, which include projection art and interactive installations, then marvel at its performance artists, whose crafts range from aerial silk dance to professional wrestling. The Night Festival kick-started the local trend of outdoor festivals and block parties, which continue to nurture a love for walking and the arts among locals and visitors alike. Ramble through the Night Festival’s compelling trails and you just might discover the next David Cerny or Damien Hirst within our burgeoning arts scene.