Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/nature-wildlife/fun-with-animals/singapore-zoo/

Title: Singapore Zoo

Located on the north-western side of the island, the Singapore Zoo is a haven for wondrous wildlife and a must-visit for animal lovers.

This beloved establishment first opened its gates to the public in 1973, and has since become one of the best rainforest zoos in the world.

Besides being home to over 2,800 animals from 300 species—including crocodiles, Malayan tapirs and white tigers—the zoo has won a trove of international and local awards.

These include plaudits from Forbes Traveler as one of the best zoos in the world, the Asian Attraction Awards for Most Popular Attraction in the Wildlife Park category and the STB 22nd Tourism Award for Best Leisure Attraction Experience of the Year. It was ranked as one of the top 3 zoos in the world by the TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice Award in 2018.

Take a walk on the wild side with us and discover what the Singapore Zoo has to offer.

Wondrous wildlife

As you stroll through the Singapore Zoo’s 11 zones, you’re bound to find myriad opportunities for unforgettable encounters with its inhabitants. The amazing creatures you’ll find here make their homes in open enclosures, designed to resemble their natural habitats.

Befriend the grey kangaroos and wallabies at the Australasia exhibit, get up close to the adorable lemurs and sloths of Fragile Forest and marvel at the majestic lions and zebras of Wild Africa.

Various opportunities for up-close encounters abound at the zoo, including behind-the-scenes insights on the Wild Discoverer Tour and feeding sessions with animals like giraffes and elephants.

If you’re looking to nurture a love for nature in your children, sign up for the Junior Zoo Keeper camp, a full-day session that’ll give your child the satisfaction of nurturing wildlife.

Other immersive experiences include multi-day family camps that’ll have you learning about animals by day and sleeping under the stars by night.

Spectacular shows

All the zoo’s a stage, and the animals are the star performers. Spectacular shows abound at the Singapore Zoo that’re bound to enchant and educate in equal measure.

Watch Californian sea lions showing off their agility at the Splash Safari, learn amazing facts about our domesticated companions at Animal Friends and befriend the gentle giants of the Elephant Presentation.

See and Do

Kidzworld

Go on an animal-themed romp with your entire family at Kidzworld, which features myriad activities like a water playground, rope course and pony rides.

Keepers’ Chit Chat

To step into the shoes of a zookeeper, sign up for the Keepers’ Chit Chat—where you’ll hear charming anecdotes about the quirks and habits of the zoo’s animals.

Singapore Zoo Gift Shop

The adorable plush toys and nature-themed mementos at the zoo’s gift shops make great souvenirs to bring home.