Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/travel-guide-tips/travelling-to-singapore/changi-airport-singapore/

Title: Singapore Changi Airport

The focal point of Singapore’s status as a world-class aviation hub, Changi Airport is an unforgettable tourist destination in its own right. With a slew of accolades to its name, Singapore’s main airport boasts a trove of exciting activities, from shopping and dining to entertainment.

The airport comprises four terminals and Jewel Changi, a ten-storey lifestyle hub that seamlessly links to Terminals 1, 2 and 3, and fuses artistry, architecture and nature into a single structure.

Whether you’re in Singapore for a layover, or spending a week in our tropical paradise, Changi Airport is bound to enchant the moment you land. Here’s a small sample of what you’ll experience.

Nature nurtured

Much like Singapore—which is globally renowned as a ‘City in A Garden’—Changi Airport is home to green spaces and verdant gardens for travellers looking to unwind and stretch their legs after a long flight.

To witness the most spectacular of these spaces, take a stroll over to Jewel Changi, and marvel at the HSBC Rain Vortex, a 40-metre-high indoor waterfall flanked on all sides by tropical plants and over 2,000 trees.

Smaller spaces that are no less charming include the Butterfly Garden at Terminal 3, the Sunflower Garden at Terminal 2 and the Cactus Garden at Terminal 1—featuring over 100 species of cacti and arid plants.

Nature lovers visiting the latter will be able to deepen their knowledge of nature’s intricacies, as they witness butterflies emerging from their chrysalides at the Emergence Enclosure.

Fun for the entire family

There’s never a dull moment at Changi Airport. Each of the airport’s terminals has its own charming array of family-friendly activities, including indoor playgrounds at Terminals 1 and 3, the island’s tallest slide (located at Terminal 3’s public area) and the Family Zone at Terminal 2.

Families travelling with teenagers can hang out at the Entertainment Corner at Terminal 4—Where they’ll find Xbox Kinect games and vintage arcade machines—or catch a movie at Changi’s two cinemas (located at Terminals 2 and 3).

Alternatively, make your way to the topmost level of Jewel, and romp with your family in the Canopy Park. This 14,000-square-metre space is filled with enchanting attractions, from garden mazes to mist-filled play areas.

Sumptuous food and shopping sprees

Sensory delights await you at Changi Airport, with shopping and food options galore. Jewel Changi alone is home to over 100 eateries, with more than 30 operating around the clock, while each of the four terminals boasts its own selection of restaurants, food halls and food courts.

You’ll also get to sample a taste of Singapore’s retail paradise all across the airport, with international brands ranging from Apple to Zara. While you’re at it, be sure to check out beloved local labels like Supermama.