Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/travel-guide-tips/about-singapore/city-in-nature/sustainable-biodiversity/

Title: Singapore’s Sustainable Sanctuaries

With island sanctuaries off the coast, mangrove swamps teeming with wildlife and green sanctuaries off the beaten path, Singapore is home to beautifully-preserved nature spots and havens of sustainability.

Whether you’re in search of a nature-themed vacation or looking to learn about how biodiversity is preserved on our sunny island, our guide spaces is bound to get you on the right track.

Pulau Ubin Bike Tour

Take a jaunt around Pulau Ubin on the back of a bicycle, and discover the wonders of nature – and some of Singapore’s history. The tour’s experienced guides at Pulau Ubin Bike Tour will lead you on a leisurely ride around the island, including a stop at Chek Jawa Wetlands. The six diverse ecosystems have been beautifully conserved and its beaches, lagoons and mangroves are home to a diverse range of birds and animals.

Pulau Hantu Intertidal Exploration

Discover a rich world of marine life on an adventure to Pulau Hantu, one of Singapore’s lesser-known offshore islands. Be sure to keep your eyes peeled for stingrays, stonefish and sea anemones as you wade along the coast. This beautiful habitat is also home to colonies of corals, giving explorers the opportunity to discover a flourishing and vibrant ecosystem.

Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve

Home to long-tailed macaques, king cobras and smooth-coated otters, Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve is Singapore’s first and only protected wetland reserve, with over 500 species of flora and fauna. This beautiful mangrove forest is also a pitstop for migratory birds like the Pacific Golden Plover, making it an ideal location for birdwatching.

Sentosa Naturalist Night Adventure

More than just an island resort filled with family-friendly attractions, Sentosa is also home to a remarkable ecosystem of conserved wildlife. Fun fact: despite the many modern attractions here, nearly 70% of the island is covered in secondary rainforest, making it the perfect place to discover tropical biodiversity. Discover the island’s hidden charms on the Sentosa Naturalist Night Adventure, which takes you on an after-dark foray along the Mount Imbiah Nature Trail. You’ll get the chance to observe nocturnal animals in their natural habitat, from amphibians to invertebrates.

Labrador Nature Reserve