Link: https://www.hellosingaporetours.com/blog?offset=1683966258124&author=5cee167491f36d000157eb18

Title: Singapore Tourist Guide Blog — Hello! Singapore Tours

Singaporean singles often feel immense social pressure to splurge on their first few dates. Unfortunately, tickets to clubs, shopping sprees, overseas beach trips, and dinners at fancy restaurants have a way of adding up.

Sure, these popular date ideas can be loads of fun, but they’re unsustainable for most singles. There’s little point in making a big show of things for someone you barely know if it means that you have to survive on instant noodles for the next few months after.

This is why it literally pays to be creative with your dates. Figuring out how to take someone on a “cheap” date that doesn’t feel cheap at all will require you to step up your game and do some out-of-the-box thinking. By being strategic with how you spend on your date, you can avoid splashing out on duds and reserve the more expensive dates for the people you hit it off with.

Below are just a few fun date ideas that won’t cost you a lot of money. Here are some things that you can do with a match from a dating app Singapore singles rely on.

Visit a Museum or Art Exhibit

Fortunately, for those in search of cheap yet high-quality date ideas, Singapore is home to a dizzying number of art galleries, exhibition spaces, museums, and well-preserved historic sites. While some exhibits do cost a fair chunk of change, most are rather affordable, and there are options for even the tightest budget.

Volunteer

What better way to express your shared values than to volunteer as a couple? Check out available local volunteering opportunities to find out how you and your match can contribute to a better Singapore.

Go for a Run

If you both lead an active lifestyle, consider asking your date out on a run. While unconventional, so-called “running dates” offer a few notable benefits.

Aside from being cheap, they also take most of the stress out of dressing up. Next, neither of you will feel particularly conscious about gulping down a huge post-run meal. Lastly, you get to see each other at your sweatiest and simplest in terms of appearances, which means there’s probably nowhere to go but up.

Stay in for Video Games

Granted, playing video games can get expensive these days. However, if you enjoy each other’s company, you won’t need the latest games and hardware to have fun. If you have an old game console at your house, you can dust it off and have hours of fun facing off with your date.





Join a Book Club

If you both love books, local book clubs can be a great way not only to spend quality time with each other but also with other like-minded people as well. Of course, it helps that book clubs are either free or charge very low membership fees.

Do Yoga

Yoga classes are a great way to decompress and bond with your match. And they can be quite affordable if you know where to look. If you want to save even more money, you can also do yoga at home through free yoga videos on YouTube and other streaming sites.

Go Thrifting

Thrift stores are less about spending cash and more about the thrill of the hunt, which makes them a great place for a budget shopping date. Whether you want a new outfit or a toaster, chances are there’s a thrift store in Singapore that will have you and your date covered.





Grab a Cup of Tea or Coffee

Even pricey coffee tends to be more affordable than a night out at a club. Plus, cafés are often quiet places, which will give you and your match a chance to have a real conversation. If it’s crowded at the café, you can get your drinks to go and enjoy them at a park or garden while watching the world go by.





Check Out Lazarus Island

Round-trip ferry tickets to Lazarus Island (Pulau Sakijang Pelepah) only cost SGD 18 per person — an amazing deal, considering the scenic beauty and rare solitude that can be found there. If you both have a day off on a weekday, you can head out on the first ferry to get an excellent shot at claiming the whole beach to yourselves.





Visit the Science Centre Singapore Observatory

You can also visit the Science Centre Singapore Observatory from 7:45 PM to 10:00 PM on regular Fridays to gaze upon the wonders of outer space. You can look at the moon’s features in detail, check out the stars, and keep coming back every few months to observe the seasons on the other planets in our solar system.

Visit Cheesy Tourist Spots

Without naming any specific spots, there are places in Singapore that tourists seem to love that the locals try to avoid. If you both have a sense of humour and know what to expect, these sites can be fun places to people-watch and gain a new perspective of the Singapore you thought you knew. Later, you can adjourn to a quiet spot to talk about the experience.

Trek up Bukit Timah

You’ve probably been to Bukit Timah before, but the awesome views from the country’s highest summit never get old. Check out the recent improvements made by the National Parks Board and try the different trails and amenities available onsite.

Visit a Pet Cafe

Is your match an animal lover? Why not take them to one of Singapore’s many pet cafés? Most local pet cafés showcase our feline friends, but there are a few options with dogs and other friendly critters as well. Make sure to ask your match if they have any allergies before committing to this idea.





Do a Hawker Stall Tour

Forget trendy bars and fancy restaurants. Hawker stalls deliver all the flavour and all the fun for just a fraction of the cost. You can even ask for your food to go and have a picnic at a nearby park for an even more unforgettable date.

Have a Couple’s Spa and Massage Day

Did you and your match have a stressful week? A couple’s spa and massage day may be just the ticket, hitting all the spots that a typical dinner and a movie never will. While massage and spa time can get expensive, shorter sessions of under an hour during off-peak hours can be quite affordable, and they’re often all you’ll need to have a great time.

Go on a Day Trip to Pulau Ubin and Chek Jawa

Pulau Ubin is the site of Singapore’s last kampongs, the villages that helped define Singapore’s unique identity. The island is also a major biodiversity hotspot thanks to the Chek Jawa Wetlands. Bumboat fares to the island are quite cheap at only SGD 4 a head and SGD 2 per bike. Hiking is free, and most of the available activities are quite affordable. All things considered, Pulai Ubin offers an incredible time for not a lot of money.

It’s worth remembering that cheap dates aren’t just for singles who’re getting to know each other. They’ll be a great experience for long-time couples too. By keeping these affordable but fun date ideas in mind, you’ll be well on your way to not just finding love on a budget, but keeping the passion and excitement as well.