Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/shoppers-heaven/

Title: Singapore—A shopper’s heaven

Singapore is home to many unique districts that offer premier shopping experiences—amidst cultural landmarks, lively street activities and dazzling architecture.

Orchard Road—Local brands and global labels

Stroll down Orchard Road, lauded as one of the best places to shop in Singapore. Spanning almost 2.2km, this bustling belt is home to a delectable range of retail, dining and entertainment choices. Department stores and shopping malls in this busting district include ION Orchard, TANGS and Design Orchard. The latter stocks a range of fashion and lifestyle items proudly made in Singapore, which makes it a good place to visit if you’re planning to shop local.

Whether you're looking for international luxury brands, stylish homegrown labels or trendy high-street fashion collections, this vibrant destination is a must-visit.

Of particular note is TANGS— multi-label heritage department store. A stalwart of Singapore’s shopping scene, this establishment has decades of history behind it, and remains at the cutting edge of fashion trends and impeccable service. Set up in 1958 by local businessman C.K. Tang, TANGS Orchard Road’s first department store. It moved to its current building at the junction of Orchard and Scotts Roads in 1982, and boasts a vast apparel, electronics and household selection. The store also stocks a variety of local designer gems such as In Good Company, a brand that boasts contemporary and casually chic apparel. If you’re looking to peruse other wares that’re proudly made in Singapore, Design Orchard is just a short stroll away.

This vibrant enclave and retail space is a window into the world of local craftmanship—dress from local fashion brand GINLEE, trendy sportswear from Kydra and artfully crafted perfumes from Singapore Memories are just some of the gems you’ll find here.

Marina Bay Sands—Luxury retail paradise

For an experience that combines luxury retail with stunning views, visit the iconic Marina Bay Sands® integrated resort. Since opening in 2010, The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands has amassed the largest collection of luxury labels under one roof in the region, with more than 170 luxury and premium brands in the form of flagship stores as well as duplexes and triplexes—such as the world’s first Louis Vuitton Island Maison. Brands such as Bottega Veneta, Chaumet, Roger Dubuis and Saint Laurent have also created limited edition items that are exclusively sold here. The Shoppes also has a wide range of luxury childrenswear, anchored by the first and only baby Dior store in Southeast Asia, as well as Armani Junior, Bonpoint and Dolce & Gabbana Junior. For a touch of exclusivity, sign up for the luxury’s mall Personal Shopping service, a by-appointment-only service that provides customised shopping experiences and first-hand access to the newest collections debuting in Southeast Asia. Catch your breath and continue your shopping spree at other malls in the nearby Marina Bay precinct, such as Marina Square, Millenia Walk, Raffles City Shopping Centre and Suntec City.

Vivocity and Harbourfront—Seaside shopping sprees

Or, make your way to Sentosa Harbourfront on the southern coast, a destination that has something in store for everyone. Sentosa Harbourfront has always been associated with the pursuit of pleasure with its exciting attractions, stylish bars and restaurants, lovely beaches, some of the biggest malls and luxe designer boutiques.

Take an afternoon off to explore VivoCity, the largest mall in Singapore. The mall features a plethora of shopping options that are suitable for the whole family, as well as stores unique to VivoCity, such as Superdry. Expect vast, open-air spaces for waterfront strolls, and find an array of amenities that are kid-friendly. Alternatively, head over to HarbourFront Centre, a vibrant three-storey retail destination that offers an array of retail options that range from electronic goods to sporting equipment. When you’ve shopped and are ready to drop, hop on the monorail or take a cable car to Sentosa, Singapore’s ultimate fun-in-the-sun playground.

Experience one-of-a-kind shopping at Resorts World™ Sentosa with myriad retail outlets offering everything from leading international brands and lifestyle creations to collectibles and must-buy items. Stores include Coach, Bvlgari, and, for those with a sweet tooth, a Hershey’s flagship store and Candylicious.

Tips for visitors to Singapore