Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/singapores-iconic-green-spaces/

Title: Singapore's iconic green spaces

Nature lovers and outdoor enthusiasts, escape from the city and explore Singapore’s green spaces for some tranquillity.

There’s a park or garden to explore no matter where you are in the country, so we’ve made things easy by sectioning this guide into the four main areas for you to get your fix of fresh air and lush greenery.

Central Region

Replete with rare flowers, vertical gardens (aka Supertrees), and intriguing sculptures from around the world, Gardens by the Bay is a stunning park consisting of three waterfront gardens.

Get a bird’s-eye view of the city from the 22-metre-high aerial walkway that links two Supertrees together, visit the world’s largest glass greenhouse or marvel at a 35-metre-tall indoor waterfall. For an unforgettable view of the Marina Bay district, be sure to check out the Supertree Observatory, located atop the tallest structure of the Supertree Grove.

From one iconic spot to another, the Singapore Botanic Gardens is a must-visit. Recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2015, this green space, which is more than 150 years old, features highlights such as National Orchid Garden, a gorgeous swan lake and heaps of tropical trees to please every plant enthusiast out there.

Travelling with the little ones? Take them to the Jacob Ballas Children's Garden, which houses a farm, orchard and grove with its own streams and ponds.

Up for a hike? Visit the MacRitchie Nature Trail & Reservoir Park. Complete the 11-kilometre-long nature trail and don’t miss the Treetop Walk, a 250-metre high suspension bridge that connects two of the park's highest points.

History buffs, make a beeline for Fort Canning Park. Conveniently located in the heart of town, this site is home to numerous historical landmarks, such as Fort Gate, a remnant of a fortress that was built in the 19th century, and other highlights like the Spice Garden.

Just a little outside of the central area are venues like Bukit Timah Nature Reserve. Take on the challenge and hike the Summit Trail to climb Singapore's tallest hill (it's 164-metres high) in this lush ASEAN Heritage Park.

Southern Region

Further south of Singapore, there’s Mount Faber and HortPark. These two green spots are part of a 10-kilometre-long trail called the Southern Ridges, which features structures like the Henderson Waves, the highest pedestrian bridge in Singapore, and bridges such as the Forest Walk and Canopy Walk.

North Eastern Region

Seletar Reservoir is split into two areas: Lower Seletar Reservoir Park and Upper Seletar Reservoir Park.

Lower Seletar Reservoir Park has highlights like the Family Bay, which consists of a performance stage, a Heritage Bridge, a bioswale rain garden, and a water play area for the young ones. There's also a fishing jetty that's usually packed with anglers hoping to catch a tilapia or two.

Popular with runners, Upper Seletar Reservoir Park features several trails and landmarks such as the rocket-shaped tower, which you can climb to the top of and take in breathtaking views of the park.

There's something for everyone at Punggol Waterway, which is segmented into four zones: Nature Cove, Recreation Zone, Heritage Zone, and Green Gallery. Rent a bicycle and cycle around the park, let the kids have fun at the water playground, look out for unique birds along the waterway, or simply snap landscape photos in the evening to capture the beauty of this green heartland destination.

Western Region