Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/singapore-night-festival/

Title: Singapore Night Festival 2022

Every August, the heart of the Lion City come to life in a medley of nocturnal celebrations, with the Singapore Night Festival (SNF) illuminating the heritage district of Bras Basah.Bugis.

Now in its 13th edition, the week-long festival boasts street performances, cultural showcases and luminous installations that’re bound to enchant and inspire in equal measure.

As night falls, take to the streets of our metropolis, and discover Singapore in a brand new light.

A world of magic after sunset

The SNF features a theme that transforms every year, with previous editions showcasing international acts such as the Duel (2018)—which saw UK troupe Lords of Lightning put on an electrifying display—and Fuerza Bruta (2019), a spectacular aerial dance performance.

2022’s festival boasts over 55 art and culture-themed experiences, centred on iconic landmarks spread across the Bras Basah.Bugis heritage district.

At Cathay Green, you’ll find yourself transported to the early days of our city, with Cathay Hotel: The Curse of the Missing Red Shoe, a live theatre extravaganza featuring fictitious and colourful characters from days of yore.

Alternatively, take to Queen Street to discover old tales through song and storytelling with Yesterday Once More, a roving theatre performance featuring soundtracks by local musicians and mesmerising dance showcases.

Art that illuminates the night

Interactive light installations—the festival’s signature highlight—return again this year, transforming our district’s cultural institutions into works of night time wonder.

Marvel at the exterior of the National Museum of Singapore, as its facade transforms into an urban canvas that evokes our nation’s heritage and mythology.

Entitled Stories from Forbidden Hill, this compelling installation delves into the past of Fort Canning, on a visual journey to the 14th century.

As you explore the rest of the district, you’ll find luminous graffiti adorning the Fort Canning Park Tree Tunnel, thought-provoking art work along Waterloo Complex and luminous sculptures hearkening to the past at the Stamford Walkway.

Take in the futuristic beauty of Glitches of You—a surreal projection by Amanda Tan that illuminates the Stamford Clock Tower—or immerse yourself in Steps, an installation at the National Museum Singapore that lights up in response to the presence of visitors.

Whether you’re a lover of art or a night owl in search of a hoot, this year’s Night Festival is bound to be an unforgettable affair.