Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/arts/museums-galleries/singapore-art-museum/

Title: Singapore Art Museum

While Singapore boasts many fine museums, galleries and exhibition spaces, the Singapore Art Museum (SAM) holds a special place in the hearts of local artists and aficionados, and is the perfect destination for those who live to be inspired.

A museum that’s wholly dedicated to contemporary art—with a finger on the pulse of the latest trends, expressions and innovations—this vibrant space is a platform, incubator and home to some of the region’s most talented artists.

Art, history and architecture

While its name suggests a single entity, SAM presents art in multiple spaces, including a new space at Tanjong Pagar Distripark and its two heritage buildings. Along Bras Basah Road is the former St Joseph’s Institution – the oldest Catholic boys’ school in Singapore – which houses the main wing of the museum. This carefully conserved structure was first built in 1867 and designed in an architectural style that hearkens back to the European Renaissance. It was gazetted as a National Monument in 1992.

Across the road on Queen Street is the former Catholic High School, which serves as an extension of the main building. It was named SAM at 8Q for its location along 8 Queen Street, and because it is approximately 88 steps away from SAM’s Bras Basah building. This four-storey building showcases exhibitions from some of the region’s most promising young artists.

The two conserved buildings are currently closed for redevelopment and will re-open in 2026. Meanwhile, visitors can visit the museum's new space at Tanjong Pagar Distripark.

A living, breathing art space

SAM is redefining the idea of a museum as a physical location that houses art by bringing art closer to its audiences in everyday and unexpected spaces.

Beginning with a new, expansive space in Tanjong Pagar Distripark, visitors can look forward to more innovative and experimental art experiences, as well as new spaces for community interactions. SAM at Tanjong Pagar Distripark will be sited alongside other art galleries, conservators and art logistics providers in a historic port district where the inaugural Singapore Biennale in 2006 was held.

Whether you’re an art lover or simply curious about art, SAM invites you to explore its art experiences across Singapore to discover opportunities for creative expression and co-creation.