Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/standard-chartered-singapore-marathon/

Title: Standard Chartered Singapore Marathon 2023

The Standard Chartered Singapore Marathon (SCSM) is back and better than ever—the race returns in its true form for the first time since 2019, with a mass start format that caters to over 50,000 participants.

One of the largest running events in Southeast Asia, SCSM was first established in 1982, originally known as the Singapore Marathon. This thrilling marathon has drawn close tens of thousands to participate every year, from devoted marathon runners to greenhorns and fitness enthusiasts.

Due to Covid-19 restrictions, 2021’s hybrid format featured a mix of virtual reality and in-person races, taking placeart all across our sunny island, while 2022 sees a return to the marathon’s original format.

Strap on your running shoes and read on to learn more about SCSM 2022’s thrilling tests of willpower and tenacity.

A test of mettle and endurance

SCSM 2022 will be taking place from 3–4 December, with spaces catering for over 50,000 participants.

With the race back in full swing, fitness enthusiasts and veteran runners alike can choose from a whole range of races to test their mettle. This includes the Marathon (42.195km), the Half Marathon (21.1km) as well as 10 km and 5 km routes.

The marathon route begins at the F1 Pit Building, before continuing on past the rich heritage of the Civic District and the skyscrapers of the Central Business District. From the 21 kilometre mark, runners will find themselves beneath the balmy palm trees of East Coast Park and by the scenic landscapes of Gardens by the Bay, before passing by the finishing line at the Float @ Marina Bay.

Also returning this year is the event’s Double Up Challenge, where runners can take part in not just one, but two races. Participants can opt to register for either the 5km or 10km race, and pair it with either the Half Marathon or go all out at on the Marathon. Runners who opt for this challenge will receive event finisher medals, as well as an exclusive Double Up Challenge Medal.

While the virtual races will not be returning this year, participants looking to push their limits and train for the event can sign up for training sessions with the Singapore Marathon Virtual Club.

Visit the Standard Chartered Singapore Marathon’s official website to register for the races in 2022.

Download the Visit Singapore App (available on App Store and Google Play) to get the low-down on thrilling events, popular haunts and hidden gems in the Lion City.