Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/green-brands/

Title: Sustainable Shopping Sprees in SG

Singapore has long been known as a shopping paradise, with bustling districts like Orchard Road and world-famous malls like The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands. This reputation comes together with its identity as a City in Nature, with a whole range of eco-friendly retailers.

Whether you’ve a budding interest in sustainable buys or a long-time commitment to protecting our planet, you’re bound to find a purchase that will help you to make a positive impact on the environment and lead a more sustainable lifestyle.

GINLEE Studio For thoughtfully-designed fashion that’s made with our planet in mind, drop by GINLEE STUDIO. The dresses from this local brand prides itself on using long-lasting materials that are sustainably produced, which prevents waste and overproduction. The studio’s customisation service, GINLEE MAKE, allows consumers to design their own pleated bags, pouches and cushions, which helps reduce fabric waste and overproduction.

The Fashion Pulpit The Fashion Pulpit — Singapore’s first and largest fashion swapping platform — allows you to trade in your clothes for other fashionable choices, cutting down on consumption and cutting down on textile waste while keeping your wardrobe trendy. Besides clothing swaps The Fashion Pulpit is also an upcyling and tailoring space, where in-house designers will help you breathe new life to existing clothes that you’re not ready to part with just yet.

Studio Gypsied

More than just a traditional textile, batik is adorned with motifs and symbols that each tell a story. The pieces from Studio Gypsied have been sustainably sourced from traditional artisans, making each buy a great way to champion regional heritage and cultural sustainability.

Esse Esse is a boutique fashion studio that prides itself on offering affordable tailoring services for all its previously-sold products. The boutique fashion studio’s beautifully-designed apparel is made from sustainable material like Tencel and organic cotton.

Zhai Eco Collection

With jumpsuits, skirts and dresses adorned in vibrant prints and made from natural fibres like eucalyptus and bamboo, the fashion statements from Zhai Eco Collection are bound to add a splash of colour to your wardrobe.

The store sources its threads from responsible suppliers within a closed loop system with a focus on upcycled products, so eco-conscious fashionistas can rest assured that the fashion statements here are be sustainable.

The Green Collective SG From beautifully-crafted wooden cutlery and composting tools to shampoos and lunch boxes for you to pack takeaway lunches, The Green Collective SG is your one-stop shop for leading a more eco-friendly lifestyle.