Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/sustainable-dining-in-singapore/

Title: Sustainable Food Dining in Singapore

Despite being a bustling metropolis, Singapore is home to lush gardens and urban farms that supply our world-class restaurants with produce proudly grown on local soil.

Whether you’re a foodie hankering for sustainable eats or eager to learn more about the fascinating world of farming, our guide to sustainable dining in Singapore has got you covered.

Labyrinth World-class fare and farm-to-table freshness go hand-in-hand at Labyrinth. Helmed by Chef Han Li Guang, the dishes at this Michelin-starred restaurant are an ode to local flavours, made with produce from our island’s passionate farmers. Signature dishes here include chilli crab and rojak (a sweet and savoury salad of vegetables, fruits and dough fritter) seasoned with local herbs.

Bollywood Farms Take a jaunt into nature and learn about the nuances of sustainable agriculture at Bollywood Farms, a 10-acre farm that specialises in organic crops. Besides conducting tours and workshops, the farm is also home to Poison Ivy Bistro, where you can dig into delectable dishes made with fresh produce, like banana bread and sweet potato chips.

Smith Marine Have a meal off the coast of Singapore by reserving a table at Smith Marine. Formerly a kelong (traditional offshore wooden platform for fishing), the space is now a restaurant that serves up fresh fish from their onsite farm, alongside a variety of seafood dishes.

Open Farm Community Indulge in Western-inspired cuisine sustainably sourced from local and Southeast Asian growers and herders at Open Farm Community. Besides boasting a menu of delectable dishes like Short rib with kailan (Chinese broccoli) and octopus in chimichurri, the restaurant also organises farm tours on the second and fourth Sundays of the month.

Scaled By Ah Hua Kelong This restaurant by local fish farm Ah Hua Kelong prides itself on serving up fresh seafood reared in Singapore’s waters, from Red Snapper to Mangrove Jack. Besides providing its own restaurant with the sea’s bounty, Ah Hua Kelong also supplies other local restaurants like Labyrinth and table65.

Bistro by Gardenasia Nestled in the heart of the idyllic Kranji countryside, Bistro by Gardenasia is a farm-to-table restaurant that champions local produce. Indulge in dishes made from locally-sourced quail eggs, baby spinach and red snapper, and be sure to check out their website for details on their monthly farmer’s market.

Vineyard Savour French and Italian-inspired cuisine made with locally grown vegetables and fish at Vineyard, a charming restaurant in Hort Park. Besides dishes like Pan Seared Grey Mullet from Jurong Fish Farm, the restaurant also garnishes its dishes with herbs from its very own edible garden.

The Summerhouse Located in a colonial-style bungalow, The Summerhouse is the ideal reprieve from the bustle of the city. Besides a café and bar, the space is home to The French Dining Room, a restaurant that serves up dishes like risotto — made with locally-farmed mushrooms — and tender grilled prawns sourced from local farmers.

1-Arden

A sky-high dining experience awaits you at 1-Arden. This gorgeous space houses several F&B concepts like Latin European bistro Sol & Luna, Japanese restaurant Oumi and Kaarla, which serves up Australian fare. While you’re there, be sure to check out the majestic 1-Arden Food Forest, which supplies the space with crops grown in its backyard.