Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/eco-friendly-hotels/

Title: Sustainable accommodation in SG

You won’t have to look far to find luxury in Singapore, with our city’s myriad of five-star hotels and stellar accommodation.

Many of these hotels are also champions of sustainability, with eco-friendly designs and initiatives. If you’re looking to travel while doing your part for the planet, read on for our guide to must-stay accommodations and eco-friendly hotels that are well worth visiting.

The Grand Hyatt

Besides an energy system that reduces the hotel’s carbon footprint by 1200 tonnes a year, The Grand Hyatt also employs a range of sustainably sourced produce at its restaurants. Foodies will be able to indulge in culinary creations made with herbs from its rooftop garden, carbon-neutral certified lamb and sustainable wines. Editor’s note: The Grand Hyatt is temporarily closed, and is slated to reopen in late 2023.

JW Mariott South Beach

With a canopy that’s structured to harvest rainwater, fitted with solar panels and designed to allow for natural ventilation, JW Mariott South Beach was built with sustainability in mind. Besides serving up delectable cuisine, the hotel’s 9 F&B outlets run efficient and sustainable operations by enhancing dishwashing operations, allowing for greater control of chemical usage and sanitising temperature.

Oasia Hotel Downtown

With verdant green creepers adorning the sides of its bright red façade, the Oasia Hotel Downtown is truly a striking landmark. This green façade is covered in 21 species of creeper plants arranged at different heights, with an additional 33 species of plants incorporated into its architecture, providing a haven for birds and animals. The hotel’s lobby has also been designed so that visitors are cooled by drafts of wind instead of air-conditioning.

PARKROYAL COLLECTION

More than just luxury accommodation, PARKROYAL Collection Marina Bay is garden in a hotel, with over 2,400 plants and trees spread across the compound. The hotel is also home to an Urban Farm with over 60 varieties of vegetables, herbs and edible flowers, which are then hand-picked for farm-to-table experiences at the hotel’s F&B outlets. PARKROYAL COLLECTION Pickering is no less impressive on the sustainability front, with its zero-energy sky gardens, an immersive skybridge filled with trees and greenery and 262 solar panels that generate renewable energy. Be sure to drop by Lime Restaurant and Bar to indulge in a range of meat-free dishes and eco-friendly cocktails.

Pan Pacific Orchard

Singapore’s first-ever zero waste hotel is a vision of greenery. The hotel boasts four stunning sky gardens, with plants nourished by a compactor that transforms food waste into nutrient water, rooms decked out with eco-friendly features and interiors that evoke the natural beauty of forests, clouds and beaches.

Marina Bay Sands