Link: https://www.tallship.com.sg/blog/media-coverage/tall-ship-adventures-clinches-multiple-prominent-industry-awards-in-2023/

Title: Tall Ship Adventures Clinches Multiple Prominent Industry Awards in 2023

Oct 30, 2023

Tall Ship Adventures Clinches Multiple Prominent Industry Awards in 2023

Tall Ship Adventures is delighted to announce that we have been awarded the prestigious Bronze in the “Innovating Royal Albatross Experiences” category at the 12th Annual Marketing Excellence Awards, organized by MARKETING-INTERACTIVE. This accolade recognizes our unwavering commitment to creating unique and innovative experiences in our local attraction industry with our very own Dog Cruise. Royal Albatross have also brought back the prestigious World Luxury Travel Award in 2022 for the Second Year in a row as well as user voted Trip Advisor’s Traveller Choice for the 4th year Running, The Marketing Excellence Awards, the company’s first, is a hallmark of the marketing industry in Singapore, acknowledges exceptional achievements across 42 diverse categories. These awards are independently evaluated by a panel of industry leaders and senior marketers, ensuring impartial recognition of outstanding work.

Our win in the “Innovating Experiences” category highlights our dedication to creating remarkable experience for our guests. Our award-winning campaign, “Innovating Royal Albatross Experiences to Create the World’s First-Ever Dog Cruise,” is a testament to our commitment to pushing the boundaries of traditional tall ship experiences. Collaborating with The Royal Albatross, we introduced a ground-breaking initiative that set a new standard for taking your dogs for a night out. This world-first dog cruise allows guests to bring their beloved canine companions on board and dine together with their owners in a semi-formal dining setting, making their tall ship experience truly unique and unforgettable. “We are thrilled to receive the Bronze award in the ‘Innovating Royal Albatross Experiences’ category,” said Mr. Peter Pela, CEO of Tall Ship Adventures. “This recognition celebrates our mission to redefine attraction industry and our commitment to offering innovative and inclusive adventures especially towards our pets who have become a part of our family. We believe in making every voyage extraordinary, and our ‘Dog Cruise’ initiative is a testament to that vision.”

This award reflects our dedication to inclusivity and our ongoing pursuit of excellence within the attractions industry. Tall Ship Adventures is committed to

providing unique and memorable journeys at sea, and we extend our heartfelt gratitude to MARKETING-INTERACTIVE for this esteemed recognition. This year the award for marketing excellence is a hotly contested award featuring companies like Diageo, HSBC, Food Panda and Sentosa.

About Royal Albatross

Tall Ship Adventures Pte Ltd is a Singapore-based company dedicated to delivering world-class experiences on-board its luxury tall ship Royal Albatross. The Royal Albatross has emerged as a premium and a unique venue/attraction for organising corporate or private events. The Royal Albatross also offers a new lifestyle destination for all Singaporeans and visitors through its unique public sailings – Breakfast Cruise, Sunday Lunch Sail, Sunset Sail and City Lights dinner cruises and occasional themed events. The Royal Albatross can be seen berthed adjacent to Sea Aquarium at Resorts World Sentosa. For more information, visit

Royal Albatross website at https://www.tallship.com.sg/

Awards and Recognition

Excellence In Marketing Innovation – Marketing Excellence Awards 2023

Winner | World Luxury Travel Awards 2021-2023

Traveller’s Choice | Trip Advisor 2020 – 2023

Best Of The Best | Trip Advisor 2022

Outstanding Attraction Experience | Singapore Tourism Awards 2022

Best Unique Super Yacht | APAC Excellence Awards 2016

Best Luxury Yacht Charter | APAC Excellence Awards 2016 – 2019

Most Inspiring Mice Venue | Mice Awards 2015

Best Event Networking Venue | Mice Awards 2015