Link: https://nerdnomads.com/temples-of-nikko

Title: Temple And Shrine Bonanza In Nikko

We walk and walk, deeper and deeper into the lush green forest of majestic leaf and pine trees. Ancient moss clings to the stone walls, as we walk between rows of perfectly aligned stone lanterns.

The further into the forest we get, the more people we meet. Large crowds of school children line up for group photos, all wearing the same yellow hats.

Then we finally see it, the big torii (shrine) gate with the temples inside.

We have arrived in Nikko, a Unesco World Heritage Site, by train on a day trip from Tokyo.

Nikko is located about a 2-hour train trip from Tokyo (one way). If you plan on taking the train to Nikko and other places in Japan, you should buy a Japan Railways Pass, JR Pass, before going to Japan. It will save you a lot of money!

Nikko is one of Japan`s biggest tourist attractions, and for a good reason, the ancient temples and shrines dating back to the glories of the Edo period (1600-1868) are stunning. The temples lay beautifully scattered among the hilly woodlands surrounded by cedar trees.

The negative of this beautiful area is that of course, everybody else has discovered it too! So it is packed with people, especially the two most famous temples. High season (summer and autumn) as well as weekends are the busiest and can take away from the spirituality of the place.

We visited Nikko on a weekday, but in July, and the two principal temples were pretty crowded by school classes, but the other temples were very peaceful.

The History Of Nikko

Nikko dates all the way back to the 8th century when the Buddhist priest Shodo Shonin (735-817) built a hut. For centuries, the Nikko area with its forest and mountains was a training ground for Buddhist monks.

Nikko first became famous when the place was chosen to house the mausoleum of Tokugawa Ieyasu, the ruling warlord of Japan. He died in 1617, and they constructed the shrine Toshu-gu in his honor.

Things To Do In Nikko –

The Shrines & Temples Of Nikko

Tosho-gu Shrine

Tosho-gu is the main Shinto shrine in Nikko, and the entrance is through a magnificent torii (shrine gate), protected by two huge red Deva kings on either side.

The shrine is a grand and impressive mausoleum that displays the wealth and power that this ruling family of Japan had for two and a half centuries.

Once you step inside the gate, you will see Sanjinko (meaning “Three Sacred Storehouses”) beautifully decorated with colorfully painted carvings.

On the top of the upper story are carvings of two elephants made by a Japanese artist who had never even seen an elephant! So the elephants look a bit funny! 🙂

Just to the left of the entrance is the famous Shinkyusha (meaning “Sacred Stable”), decorated with wood carvings of monkeys in different positions.

The most famous of these monkeys are the three in the middle, “Hear no evil, See no evil and Speak no evil” monkeys demonstrating the three principles of Tendai Buddhism.

"Hear no evil, See no evil and Speak no evil" monkeys

But this shrine bonanza of Nikko doesn`t stop with these two marvelous buildings, oh no, there are still plenty to see! Step through another torii (shrine gate), climb some stairs, and voila you will enter Honji-do.

This huge hall is famous for it`s painting on the ceiling of “Crying Dragon” which is stunning in itself. But the cool thing about it is that the dragon will cry (make a dragon roar) when the monk claps two sticks together beneath it. The monks demonstrated this while we were there, and it is a unique sound emanating from the ceiling under the dragon and nowhere else in the hall. Very strange, and a bit like magic! 🙂 Unfortunately, it is not allowed to take photos or video in this room.

Up next is the Yomei-mon (meaning “Sunset Gate”), amazingly decorated with gold leaf sparkling in the sun, and intricate, colorful carvings and paintings of flowers, dancers and mythical beasts and Chinese sages. It is a bit gaudy, and it is more Chinese style than Japanese, but still exquisite!

Fun fact: To not arouse envy in the gods by its perfection, those who constructed this building deliberately had the final supporting pillar placed upside down to create an error.

The panels along the corridor are decorated with over 300 unique paintings of flowers and different animals and birds. The most famous of these paintings is Nemuri-Neko (“Sleeping Cat”) a small wooden sculpture of a sleeping cat up under the ceiling. This cat is famous in all of Japan for its lifelike appearances. Well, it is cute but to be honest, I did not see what the big deal was and why everybody was queueing up to see it. It is not that impressive, but very cute! 🙂

Rinno-ji Temple

The Rinno-Ji Temple was built 1200 years ago and is a Tendai-sect temple. The temple was undergoing restoration work while we were there. It is due for completion in 2020.

We did, however, get to go inside and see the interiors which are on display. We got to see three 8 m gilded wooden Buddha statues, which visitors usually don`t get to see up close when they are in the actual temple.

Taiyuin-byo Shrine

The Taiyuin-byo Shrine was built for the grandson of the emperor Iemitsu (1604-1651). That it is a bit further away from the main temple makes it less crowded, which was a good thing! No school classes here. We really enjoyed this temple the most, as it was more peaceful and atmospheric.

It contains many of the same things as the main shrine Tosho-gu, like storehouses, drum tower, and Chinese-style gates.

This shrine is, however, a lot more compact and intimate and is set in beautiful surroundings deep into the green and lush forest.

Besides all the statues and beautiful buildings, this shrine contains dozens of lanterns and a gate with two white and gold decorated guardians. The defenders are holding one hand up and one down; up = welcoming those with pure hearts and down = to suppress those with impure hearts. I hope and believe we have pure hearts as we felt very welcomed. 🙂

Futarasan-jinja Shrine

The Futarasan-jinja Shrine dates back to 1619 and is Nikkos oldest. This is the most atmospheric of all the shrines and temples. It is set high up on the hill in between tall cypress trees. We loved this temple.

Futarasan-jinja is the protector shrine of Nikko itself, dedicated to the nearby mountains surrounding Nikko.

Shin-kyo Bridge

This beautiful and photogenic bright red bridge located at the sacred spot where the Buddhist priest Shodo Shonin is said to have been carried across the river on the back of two giant serpents.

Nikko City

The small city of Nikko is cozy with small shops and cafes/restaurants. It is also very quiet as all tourists visit the shrines and temples all day. When the temple area closes at 5 pm. the visitors head down into the city, but most of them are on a day trip to Nikko and will only spend a few hours in the town before heading onwards.

We had a couple of hours waiting for our returning train to Tokyo, so we had dinner and some dessert at a small local cafe.

For dinner, we had Udon noodles with Yuba. Yuba is a popular traditional dish in the Nikko area and is the skin that forms when making tofu out of soybeans. It is cut into strips and used in everything from Udon dishes to Sashimi to fried bean buns. To tell you the truth, it doesn`t taste very much!

For dessert, we had a typical Japanese green tea set called “San-ten Nama Youkan & Macha Set”. Youkan is a typical Japanese sweet made of jellied bean paste. They usually come in three different colors; brown is made of black soybeans, yellow/green is made of green soybeans while purple is made of purple sweet potato.

Udon noodles with Yuba Green tea and sweets

Nikko is such a vast area of shrines and temples that it is almost overwhelming! We spent one full day there, and that was enough. I`m glad we didn`t spend more days in Nikko as we felt a bit templed out after this. 🙂

Nikko is great, especially if you don`t have that much time in Japan and want to see many temples and shrines within a short period.

If you want to get the most out of your visit to Nikko, and don´t want to do this trip on your own, book a private one day guided tour of Nikko from Tokyo.

How To Get To Nikko?

The best and fastest way to reach Nikko is by train from Tokyo. There are four train options you can choose from:

1. The fast and expensive limited express trains from Asakusa Station in Tokyo (we took this!)

These trains are run by Tobu Railway and leaves from Asakusa Station in Tokyo to Tobu-Nikko Station in Nikko. There are one or two limited express trains per hour between Asakusa and Tobu-Nikko Station. The train ride takes about two hours and costs around 2700-2800 Yen (=25US$) one way. Some connections require a transfer at Shimo-Imaichi Station.

You can find the timetable for the Nikko limited express train HERE.

The Japan Rail Pass and other JR passes are unfortunately NOT valid on these Tobu trains.

Tobu Railway is, however, offering various passes for tourists, which include the round trip from Tokyo to Nikko and unlimited use of buses in the Nikko area. Note that the passes do not cover the supplement fee required on limited express trains (1340-1440 Yen one way). We bought the Nikko City Area Pass, a 2-day ticket to Nikko by Tobu Railway. Although we only used one day (we only did a day-trip from Tokyo).

You can either buy this online from this link, or at TOBU Tourist Information Center ASAKUSA at Tobu Asakusa Station. We bought it at Tobu Asakusa Station, on the same morning as we took the express train to Nikko. If you arrive at Narita Airport, you can also buy it at Skyliner & Keisei Information Center at the Narita Airport Terminal 2/3 station.

2. The slower but cheaper express and local trains from Asakusa Station

Express and local trains are also run by Tobu Railway, from Asakusa Station to Tobu-Nikko Station. On these trains, a one-way journey costs only 1360 Yen (=12US$). But takes at least half an hour longer than the limited express trains and requires one to three transfers of trains along the way. The Japan Rail Pass and other JR passes are NOT valid on these Tobu trains.

3. The fast but expensive limited express train from Shinjuku Station in Tokyo

Direct limited express trains, cooperated by Japan Railways (JR) and Tobu Railway, connect JR Shinjuku Station with Tobu Nikko Station. The one-way journey takes two hours and costs 4000 Yen (=36us$). The JR Pass is valid on these trains.

4. Japan Railways (JR)

Take the JR Tohoku Shinkansen (from Tokyo Station or Ueno Station) to Utsunomiya Station and transfer to the JR Nikko Line. With a good connection at Utsunomiya, the one-way trip takes about 100 minutes. This ticket is pretty expensive though, about 5500 Yen (=45US$) one way, so you should only choose this option if you already have a JR pass.

If you plan on taking trains around Japan, you should buy a Japan Railways Pass, JR Pass, before going to Japan. It will save you a lot of money!

From Nikko train station there are buses (190 JPY = 2 us$) up to the temple and shrine area, or you can walk (uphill for about 20 min). Bus stops are announced in English.

How Much Does A Day In Nikko Cost?

You have to buy tickets at each temple and shrine:

Tosho-gu Shrine: about 1300 JPY = 12 us$

Rinno-ji Temple: about 400 JPY = 4 us$ (Sanbutsudo only), 300 JPY = 3 us$ (Treasure House and Shoyoen Garden)

Taiyuin-byo Shrine: about 550 JPY = 5 us$

Futarasan-jinja Shrine: about 200 JPY = 2 us$

Opening Hours Nikko Temples

All temples and shrines are open between 08:00 and 17:00. They close 16:00 between November and March. No closing days.

Travel Guides

We used Lonely Planet`s Japan Travel Guide on our trip. You can get that and other great books by clicking on the pictures below which will take you to Amazon.com (affiliate links):





PIN IT FOR LATER!

Hover over the image below, and press the red “Save” button that pops up:

Have you been to a temple or shrine area? Did you like it, or did you think it was too much? We`d love to hear from you. Please leave a comment in the comment area below! If you enjoyed this, please share on social media! Thanks! 🙂