Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/content/desktop/en/walking-tour/eat-drink/bars-in-club-street-ann-siang-hill/

Title: The best bars in Ann Siang Hill and Club Street

Overview

Between historic Chinatown and modern Telok Ayer lies an L-shaped enclave that’s known for its hip watering holes and laid-back hangouts.

The Ann Siang Hill and Club Street area houses a wealth of cool joints in close proximity to each other, making it the perfect neighbourhood for bar-hopping.

Ready your beer goggles and wine glasses, and get in the mood for merriment.

All venues are near the Chinatown and Telok Ayer MRT stations

Ann Siang Hill

Line your stomach with a satisfying French dinner at 1 Les Buchons. Big eaters can opt for the 250gm ribeye steak, which is seared to perfection, while sharing plates here include a gigantic côte de bœuf platter.

Next, get the party going early by making a beeline for 2 Honcho. This charming rooftop venue combines omakase eats with tasty and Insta-worthy tipples.

Great watering holes are worth the hunt, and your search for 3 Junior The Pocket Bar is bound to pay off. This intimate space boasts a constantly evolving theme that changes up throughout the year, and sets the stage for both the bar’s décor and cocktails.

If you’re a connoisseur of wine instead of cocktails, peruse the selection of reds and whites at 4 Club Street Wine Room. Order some sharing dishes (like beef tartare and Iberico pork jowl) to go with your glass of wine.

Club Street

Beginning your exploration of the neighbourhood at Club Street? We recommend making 5 NOX - Dine in the Dark your first stop. This restaurant boasts a unique experience that has diners savouring an exquisite meal in pitch darkness.

For natural wines and delicious bar snacks, drop by 6 Le Bon Funk. Head sommelier Jos Kjer’s wine list and Chef-owner Keirin Buck’s contemporary dishes are bound to tickle your palate.



Alternatively, take a short detour down Gemmill Lane and drop by izakaya-themed 7 The Kongsee, where you’ll find local craft beer on tap and comfort food that infuses traditional bar fare with local twists.

