Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/tips-on-travelling-with-kids/

Title: Tips on travelling with kids to Singapore

Family holidays are the best for getting quality time with the whole brood, but they can be as frazzling as they are fun-filled, especially with tiny tots in tow. Fret not, parents, we’ve got you—here’s a list of the most family-friendly experiences in Singapore.

Check in to family-friendly hotels

Live in the lap of luxury with the little ones at top-of-the-line hotels that offer kid-friendly facilities. Check in to Resorts World™ Sentosa's All Hotels for its fun design—step through the hotel doors and you’ll be greeted with warm, vibrant pops of colour and cheerful décor. Pro tip: book a stay in one of the Deluxe Family King rooms, where the kids can live out their treehouse dreams with the spacious loft beds. Resorts World™ Sentosa also offers a Kids Club that holds storytelling and craft sessions. Another option on Sentosa Island is Shangri-La’s Rasa Sentosa Resort & Spa, which also boasts an outdoor playground, a miniature water theme park and the Toots Club, an activity-based programme for kids aged five to 12. Plus, the hotel’s located right by Siloso Beach, perfect for a beach getaway for the whole clan. Alternatively, opt for a stay at The St. Regis Singapore. Here, the kids can take a dip in the Tropical Spa Pool or unwind after a day of activities with movie rentals from the hotel’s DVD library. You can also request baby amenities such as playpens, bottle warmers and bottle sterilisers, as well as a babysitter to assist you during your stay.

Dine at kid-friendly restaurants

Kick back and relax at Cafe Melba at Goodman Arts Centre, the perfect oasis for a relaxing day out. Pick from its all-day breakfast menu or gourmet sandwiches. Join the Kids Club for extra treats like mystery gifts, or enjoy the café’s bouncy castle; it’s up on weekdays from 3pm to 8pm and weekends from 9am to 8pm. Other kid-friendly cafes and eateries around the island include Open Farm Community, Ola Beach Club and Kith Café. Most restaurants in Singapore offer kid-friendly dining facilities. Be sure to keep a look out for eateries that offer free dining for the young ones with every adult main course ordered.

Shop at the most well-equipped malls

Well-equipped for babies, that is. Busy parents know that shopping with the little munchkins is no mean feat. But fret not, plenty of malls in Singapore boast nappy-changing stations, kiddy cabs, and everything you need to have a fuss-free day out.

City Square Mall, for instance, has an interactive play fountain and eco-playground where kids can run around and have fun. There are also nappy-changing stations and child basins in most bathrooms, as well as kiddy cab and baby pram rentals for tired tots and parents alike.

Head to Westgate for the free rooftop playground, Westgate Wonderland, where kids can take a break if they get tired or bored of shopping. The mall also offers a kids shower room on level four, and nursing rooms on basement one and level four.

Keep the kids occupied with educational tours

Edutainment’s the name of the game. Sign the young ones up for some fun tours that also make for great learning opportunities. Head to the Singapore Zoo to marvel at wildlife, and make the most of the experience when you sign up for any of its educational tours. The kids can get a taste of being zookeepers with the behind-the-scenes Animals in the Pink tour, which gives insight into how animal caregivers and veterinarians take care of the Mandai Wildlife Reserve’s furry friends. For less fauna and more flora, sign up for any of the workshops, guided walks or tours at the Singapore Botanic Gardens and the Jacob Ballas Children’s Garden. Bring the kids on a garden ‘treasure hunt’ or attend a hands-on educational workshop to learn about the diverse plants that the Gardens are home to.

Snag kids-priced tickets at these popular attractions

Must-visit attractions such as the Universal Studios Singapore are probably already on your itinerary, but be sure not to miss out on kids’ priced tickets (one-day passes are S$56 for children aged four to 12) and kids’ events while you’re there. Start your day sunny when you get to Sesame Street—have breakfast with your favourite characters from the show, pose for family photos and play plenty of fun games.