Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/biggest-sporting-events-singapore/

Title: Top events in Singapore - November 2023

Festive celebrations, pop culture showcases and more await visitors to Singapore this November. Whether you’re an anime fan, a fashionista or just looking forward to Christmas coming early, we’ve got you covered. Here’re just some of the thrilling events in The Lion City this month.

Made with Passion Pop Up Celebrate local lifestyle brands like Baju by Oniatta, Eden+Elie and more as we showcase their stories and products at the Made with Passion Pop Up. Uncover the essence of local craftsmanship and creativity fuelled by passion here. Date: 27 September – 9 November 2023

Venue: Design Orchard

Deepavali Celebrations Discover the beauty of Hinduism’s Festival of Light with the annual Deepavali celebrations in Little India. A festival of deep cultural significance, this fixture on the heritage district’s calendar promises multisensory attractions, from food festivals and street shows to traditional craft workshops. Date: 30 September – 3 December 2023

Venue: Little India

LKY: The Experience

LKY: THE EXPERIENCE, is an immersive experience that allows one to delve into the life of Lee Kuan Yew, by entering sets reimagining iconic chapters. Then, explore zones revealing lesser-known moments. Travel through time and rainbow slides and encounter a novel retelling of an icon’s story — beyond his political career. Experience over 20 immersive rooms and uncover intriguing facts that fuelled Singapore’s founding father in the 100 years of legacy.

Date: 6 October – 31 December 2023

Venue: 11 Prinsep Link

Por Por's Big Fat Wedding Surprise

A dinner theatre production by Singapore Repertory Theatre, directed by Cultural Medallion winner Dick Lee, written by acclaimed local actor-playwright Jo Tan and featuring veteran actor Koh Chieng Mun. The audience attends the wedding as Por Por's "guests", while feasting on a four-course modern Indian culinary experience curated by Chef Mural of ADDA, who was the first Indian chef to earn a Michelin star for an Indian restaurant (Song of India) in Southeast Asia.

Date: 8 November – 3 December 2023

Venue: One Farrer Hotel

WB100 Celebrating Every Story Celebrate a century of movie magic in style at Sentosa, with the hundred-year anniversary of legendary film studio Warner Brothers. Keep an eye out for photo opportunities, free movie screenings, fun activities and a thrilling array of activities showcasing iconic and upcoming TV shows and movies from Warner Bros such as Tom and Jerry, Scooby-Doo, Aquaman and Harry Potter and the Wizarding World. Date: 10 – 26 November 2023

Venue: Sentosa

Boutique Fairs Singapore Experience the ultimate holiday shopping extravaganza at Boutique Fairs Singapore's Gifting Edition 2023! Discover 80 new brands and 300 independent brands, including regional labels making their Singapore debut. With over 200 exclusive collection launches, redemption perks, cafes, a convenient room concierge, and a free shuttle bus service, this event is a must-visit for all shopping enthusiasts looking for a unique and hassle-free experience. Date: 17 – 19 November 2023

Venue: F1 Pit Building

Christmas on A Great Street Break out the festive decorations and deck the streets with holly – Christmas on A Great Street is slated to return this November. This beloved event will see a two-mile stretch Orchard Road decorated with dazzling lights and ornaments. Visitors can also expect three Great Christmas Villages with carnival rides and games, pop-up stores, and food and beverage kiosks located outside Shaw House, Ngee Ann City and Plaza Singapura. The Christmas Eve street party will stretch from Paterson junction to Bideford junction, and it will be closed to traffic from 6pm onwards. The party will take place from 8pm to 12.30am, and will feature performances, Christmas carols, Santa Meet & Greet sessions, a market, food trucks, and a countdown to Christmas. Date: 16 November – 1 January 2024

Venue: Orchard Road

Next in Vogue Immerse yourself in the future of fashion at Vogue Singapore's 'NEXT IN VOGUE' event, presented in collaboration with EDITION Hotels to celebrate Vogue’s third anniversary. With thought-provoking conversations, a curated Vogue Closet, Vogue Glam Room, and exciting fringe activities, this event promises to be a captivating exploration of fashion, innovation, and culture. Date: 17 – 18 November 2023

Venue: Orchard

Nintendo Pop-up Store

This first-in-Southeast Asia Nintendo pop-up will be located near the Pokémon store on Level 4 in Jewel Changi Airport. The pop-up store will feature official Nintendo merchandise from games such as Super Mario, Animal Crossing, The Legend of Zelda, Splatoon and Pikmin, a Nintendo Switch Play area and mascot meet-and-greet sessions.



Date: 17 November – 1 January 2024

Venue: Jewel Changi Airport

TRIFECTA Music Festival Feel the stoke at TRIFECTA Music Festival from 18-19 November, Singapore’s first board sports and music festival with 28 of the top music artists and DJs including Ruel, Phum Viphurit, Fazerdaze, Lola Amour, RRILEY, Shye, Forests, EMONIGHTSG and more! Organised by TRIFECTA, Asia’s first snow, surf, and skate lifestyle destination in Singapore’s iconic shopping belt, Orchard Road. ⁠Tickets available for purchase here. Date: 18 – 19 November 2023

Venue: 10A Exeter Road

Immersive Disney Animation Ever wanted to step right into your favourite Disney movie? Immersive Disney Animation will fulfil that fantasy with a 360-degree multi-sensory experience that takes you inside your favourite Walt Disney Animation Studios movies like never before!



Taking place at the Marina Bay Sands Theatre, this immersive movie experience will have you picking from over 40 contemporary and classic titles and experiencing the songs and scenes that you love in a brand new way. Date: 18 November – 31 December 2023

Venue: Marina Bay Sands Theatre

Tropical: Stories from Southeast Asia and Latin America Tropical: Stories from Southeast Asia and Latin America is the world’s first large-scale exhibition to take a comparative approach between artistic expressions from Southeast Asia and Latin America, united by their struggles against colonialism. Comprising over 200 paintings, sculptures, drawings, performances and sensorial installations, Tropical spans the 20th century, tracing how artists from both regions challenged conventions and fostered solidarities, defiantly reclaiming their place within the story of art. Date: 18 November – 24 March 2024

Venue: National Gallery Singapore