Link: https://ninaoutandabout.ca/travel-resources/#wrapper

Title: Travel Resources

Nina Out and About contains affiliate links and is a member of the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. If you make a purchase using one of these Amazon links, I may receive compensation at no extra cost to you. See my Disclosure Policy for more information.

After travelling full-time for over 5 years and living in 8+ countries, I’ve become an expert on travel resources.

Use my tried and tested favourites to ensure your next trip abroad is stress free – even if you’re moving everything you own!

How to Move Abroad for Free

WWOOF – Wwoofing is a popular option to find free accommodations in exchange for manual labour, usually on farms, abroad.

Workaway – I used Workaway to live in Europe for a year without any essential costs! For $40/year, you can live anywhere in the world working part-time at any task.

Trusted Housesitters – Exchange your services watering plants or feeding dogs to get a free place to stay. Trusted Housesitters is my #1 choice when I house sit for free accommodations.

Moving Abroad Resources

1-800-Got-Junk – Need to clear out your home before moving? Call 1-800-Got-Junk to avoid carting everything to and from the dump for hours. It makes it so much easier to downsize!

UPack – All you have to do is pack, and UPack will take care of the rest of your move!

How to Find Cheap Flights

Google Flights – Google Flights is an easy way to compare flights from a variety of carriers. I love their “any date” feature.

Skyscanner – Skyscanner is my bread and butter for finding cheap flights. It’s extremely customizable so you can let it tell you when to travel and what countries are cheapest to visit.

Skiplagged – Skiplagged is my prized secret for finding cheap travel tickets to anywhere.

Priority Pass – Get into lounges for free with Priority Pass. You’ll be able to travel in style without the cost.

Best Accommodation Resources

Airbnb – Get the feeling of home abroad by renting an Airbnb.

Vrbo – I prefer Vrbo to Airbnb. They have lower service fees and often more options for accommodations that are home-y without costing thousands of dollars.

Hostelworld – Looking for the best hostel? Check out hostel world’s helpful rating systems. I’ve used them across New Zealand to find affordable accommodations.

Booking.com – Every hotel you’ve ever thought of is on booking.com. I use Booking.com when I know where I want to stay and need the cheapest price.

Expedia – Browsing hotels? Head to Expedia! I love Expedia to help me find the best hotel in locations I’m not familiar with.

Rental Car Resources

Discover Cars – Discover Cars compares the prices for a vehicle from a variety of suppliers to ensure you get the cheapest rate.

BlaBlaCar – The cheapest ridesharing app. Stop overpaying for Ubers!

Best Tours for Women

Contiki – 18-35 year old women should take a Contiki tour at least once in their life. It helped me get comfortable travelling abroad solo.

G Adventures – G Adventures is my preferred tour type because of their do-it-yourself style. You get a tour planned for you, but then you can go on it alone!

Viator – Day tours can be so hard to find. Viator makes it easy, with transparent ratings and epic options around the world.

Get Your Guide – Get Your Guide is my favourite platform to book local tours in the USA.

Travel Safety Essentials

Hidden Pocket Scarf – Protect your valuables from pick pockets with this handy scarf.

Safety Wing Insurance – The best travel insurance for digital nomads, expats, and solo female travellers.

How to Send Money Abroad

Wise.com – I only use Wise.com when I’m sending money abroad. Their multi-currency credit card also eliminates international fees, which means I don’t need to sign up to a million credit cards that only work well outside my home country.

Packing Essentials

Portable Power Bank – Never get lost in Amsterdam without a map because your phone died again!

Tripod – The perfect lightweight tripod to take selfies and posed shots abroad.

International Adapter – Don’t fry your hair with the wrong adapter again!

Portable Massage Gun – For those aches and pains after long haul flights and 30,000 steps across Italy.

Scrubba Washbag – Stop ruining your clothes in hostel washing machines when you can save time, money, and your precious items with Scrubba!

Microfiber Towel – The softest and easiest to pack towel on the market. I use them for the gym, the beach, and travel.

Portable Scale – Never overpay for luggage fees again!

Phones and Internet Abroad

Google Fi – Pay as you go data for around the world.

Skyroam – My favourite hotspot for mobile wifi. I use this when I go camping or when my apartment doesn’t have internet for a week due to a technician mix up.

NordVPN – Stream shows from around the world with NordVPN. Finally Canadians can access US Netflix and Americans can get their British crime shows on!

How to Make Friends Abroad

MeetUp – The #1 way to meet people when travelling. MeetUp has groups for every interest, and it’s 100% free to join!