Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/unique-eats-six-unusual-dining-experiences-in-singapore/

Title: Unique dining experiences in SG

Singapore’s reputation as a food paradise is well warranted — besides delicious hawker food and world-class Michelin fare, The Lion City is also home to a range of experiential and immersive culinary experiences.

From dining in the dark to theatrical extravaganzas, these unique offerings are bound to be unforgettable.

Peranakan Food Tour with Lionel Chee

Join World Food Tour Associate Ambassador, chef, and proud champion of Peranakan culture Lionel Chee on a foray into the fascinating world of nonya food culture. Explore the colourful streets of Katong/Joo Chiat, and learn more about the complex spices and ingredients used in this beloved cuisine.

ANDSOFORTH

Theatre and tantalising tastes come together in an enchanting blend with ANDSOFORTH’s immersive dining experiences. Besides Absurdities — their immersive dining restaurant that serves up a six-course omakase meal with theatrical flourishes — the brand also offers a range of culinary adventures held in secret locations. Part stage drama, part exquisite meal, ANDSOFORTH’s also organises pop-up productions— such as Around The World in 80 Days— that combine dining with themed activities.

NOX Dine in the Dark

Plunge into a world of mindful eating with NOX Dine in The Dark. Diners will be seated in a pitch-dark room and enjoy the flavours of 12 mysterious dishes, while relying on their other four senses to better appreciate the exquisite meal.

Ocean Restaurant

An odyssey beneath the waves awaits you at Ocean Restaurant, as you dine amid the splendour of the world’s largest oceanarium. Floor-to-ceiling glass panels will provide a spectacular view into the ocean’s mysteries, as you admire hammerhead sharks and giant groupers while feasting on dishes by Chef Olivier Bellin.

Singapore River Dining Cruise

Set sail down the historic Singapore River and be dazzled by the bright lights of the Lion City on the Singapore River Dining Cruise. Dig into seafood dishes as you take in the sights along the river from Fort Canning and bustling Clarke Quay to the iconic skyline of Marina Bay.

Le Petit Chef

3D mapping, themed music and the hologram avatar of a tiny chef will accompany you as you embark on a charming culinary foray with Le Petit Chef. Expect tantalising tastes and a world-spanning narrative adventure during this unforgettable five-course meal.

Market To Table Culinary Tour

Take a deep dive into the craft and cultural heritage of local cuisine, with Let’s Go Tours insightful cooking classes. Your journey starts at a local wet market, where you’ll be purchasing ingredients for the class, and learning about the produce used in local dishes.

From market to table culinary experiences to forays into Hokkien and Hainanese cuisine, these experiences will be both food for thought and a thrill for your tastebuds.

Kindred Journeys

From fascinating forays into the world of durian — dubbed the King of Fruit by Locals — to baking lessons that’ll have you trying your hand at whipping up egg tarts, Kindred Journeys is bound to have you hankering to learn more about Singapore’s unique culinary heritage.

More than just regular cooking classes, these delightful experiences will have you learning about the heritage of beloved local brands and the passionate chefs, founders and hawkers behind them.