Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/see-do-singapore/recreation-leisure/fun-things-to-do/universal-studios-singapore/

Title: Universal Studios Singapore

The shimmering wonders of the silver screen comes to vivid life at Universal Studios Singapore, the first-ever Hollywood movie theme park in Southeast Asia.

Whether you’re a daredevil in search of adrenaline rushes and high-flying thrills, a film buff looking to immerse yourself in the world of movies, or in search of a thrilling jaunt with your loved ones, this theme park will provide you with a ride to remember.

Fun for the Family

With six unique zones populated by iconic characters from world-famous franchise, Universal Studios Singapore promises endless fun for the entire family.

Strut your stuff down the renowned Walk of Fame at the Hollywood Zone and say hello to the adorable Minions from Despicable Me and the characters from Kung Fu Panda. As you venture into New York, you’ll find myriad attractions based on the classic characters from childhood favourite Sesame Street.

The young and the young at heart will have a ball of a time in Far Far Away, as they rub shoulders with the whimsical characters from Shrek.

The park’s 3 other zones will transport you to fantastical realms, with the awe-inspiring dinosaurs of the Lost World, the sandy dunes and ancient tombs of the Mummy in Ancient Egypt and the futuristic world of Battlestar Galactica at Sci–Fi City.

Thrills and Spills Galore

With 24 distinct rides and attractions across the park’s six zones, the adventure never ends at Universal Studios Singapore.

Whether you’re battling evil with Optimus Prime and the Autobots aboard TRANSFORMERS The Ride: The Ultimate 3D Battle or venturing into the forbidden sands on a treasure hunt, you’re in for a blast of a time.

Dauntless seekers of adrenaline rushes should strap themselves into iconic rollercoaster rides like Revenge of The Mummy at Battlestar Galactica Human or Cylon— the world’s tallest duelling roller coasters.

Alternatively, brave the dino-filled waterways of Jurassic Park Rapids Adventure or soar high above the treeline on the Canopy Flyer. Little ones needn’t miss out on the fun either, with family-friendly attractions like Sesame Street Spaghetti Space Chase and Enchanted Airways.

If you’re looking to bring some magical memories home with you, the park also boasts myriad shops selling adorable plushies and charming souvenirs, from Big Bird’s Emporium and the Minion Mart to the Fairy Godmother’s Potion Shop.