Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/shopping-on-a-budget-in-singapore/

Title: Wallet-friendly retail in Singapore

Besides being a shopping mecca for luxury goods and world-renowned brands, Singapore is also home to a whole range of affordable retail and wallet-friendly shopping options.

The satisfaction of finding a surprise bargain is certainly priceless, and our guide will clue you in on the youth enclaves, heartland malls and shopping destinations where you’ll get the most bang for your buck.

Global labels at bargain prices

IMM

Home to over 90 retail outlet stores which offer up to 80% discounts across the year, IMM is home to a whole range of retail gems. From home-grown brands like Charles & Keith to international names such as Coach, Nike and Timberland, you’re bound to find a purchase that strikes your fancy.

Shopping works up an appetite—so head to the restaurants to fuel up. Indulge in popular hot-pot restaurant Hai Di Lao, try out seafood at Long Beach, or even grab a casual meal at the many fast food chains.

Parents travelling with children will be happy to know that IMM boasts two playgrounds on Level 3 where your kids can romp to their hearts’ content.

IMM. 2 Jurong East Street 21, Singapore 609601

Changi City Point Located at the heart of Changi Business Park, Changi City Point is popular amongst the working crowd, but a hidden gem for most travellers. Sporting brands Nike, Adidas, Lacoste and Puma have sizeable outlets that offer generous discounts so you don’t feel the pinch splurging on activewear. Those requiring travel gear to take on the road can head to Samsonite and American Tourister. If you have kids in tow, take a break by heading to the landscape rooftop garden, or Level 3’s ‘The Arena’, where you can find an outdoor amphitheatre and treehouse trail. Changi City Point. 5 Changi Business Park Central 1 Singapore 486038

Shopping havens for sports fans

Velocity@Novena Square

From international brands like Adidas and Asics to camping equipment at The Big Country, Velocity@Novena Square is the go-to mall for athletes and active travellers alike.

With the sheer variety of items on display and frequent sales at outlets across the mall, you’re bound to find sports gear and equipment at great prices. We suggest visiting Running Lab for a wide selection of shoes or Decathlon for affordable sportswear and equipment.

In line with the sports theme, the mall also boasts an indoor climbing wall at Climb Central for shoppers looking to work up a sweat after bargain hunting.

Velocity@Novena Square. 238 Thomson Road, Singapore 307683

Queensway Shopping Centre

Avid athletes are bound to hit a homerun with the deals at Queensway Shopping Centre.

Local sneaker heads and sports enthusiasts alike tend to make this quaint mall their first stop when searching for activewear and vintage sneakers. The maze of stores here can be a little difficult to navigate for first time visitors, so we suggest making a beeline for establishments like Sports World, Limited EDT and Transworld Sports.

Queensway Shopping Centre. 1 Queensway, Singapore 149053.

For youth and the young at heart

Bugis Street Spanning three storeys and always bustling with youthful crowds, Bugis Street is where trendy fashion meet affordability. You’ll want to devote a few hours to exploring the rows of closely-packed shops offering quirky threads and street-savvy fashion items. Fans of Korean pop culture can look forward to a dedicated zone where you’d find cosmetics, K-pop-style outfits, and face masks galore. Bugis Street. 3 New Bugis Street, Singapore 188867.

Far East Plaza

A stomping ground for trendy local teenagers and fans of street fashion, Far East Plaza boasts a range of retail and lifestyle options from affordable beauty services to unique apparel and accessories from boutique stores.

The mall is also home to hole-in-the-wall food eateries on Level 5, selling delicious cuisine that’s a well-kept secret amongst locals. Indulge in salted egg yolk pork ribs at New Station Snack Bar, Hainanese Chicken Rice, and even Thai dishes at Kra Pow Thai Street Food.

Far East Plaza. 14 Scotts Rd, Singapore 228213.