Link: https://www.wanderlustchloe.com/press-and-media/#content

Title: Wanderlust Chloe in the Press and Media

Find out about Wanderlust Chloe’s appearances in the press and media…

From freelance writing for other big name publications, to ambassadorships with travel brands and some lovely accolades and awards, here’s a quick round up of Wanderlust Chloe in the press and media.

Wanderlust Chloe’s Awards, Ambassadorships And Features

Lonely Planet Trailblazer – One of seven travel bloggers chosen to be an ambassador for the world’s most famous travel brand!

Visit England Ambassador – One of five travel bloggers chosen to be an ambassador for Visit England, sharing beautiful destinations from my home country.

TravMedia’s Travel Influencer Of The Year 2022 (Winner)

Winning Travel Influencer of the Year at the TravMedia Awards 2022

British Travel Awards Best Travel Blogger 2021 For Great British Bucket List.

Cosmopolitan Best Travel Influencer 2019 (Cosmopolitan Influencer Awards – Finalist)

Cosmopolitan Influencer Awards 2019

12 Month Achievement Award 2019 (Traverse Creator Awards – Finalist)

Teletext Best Female Travel Blogger 2019 (Teletext Blogger Awards – Nominated)

Teletext Best Food And Travel Blogger 2019 (Teletext Blogger Awards – Shortlisted)

Travmedia’s Best Travel Influencer (SitUp Awards – Shortlisted)

Blogger Of The Year (Visit USA UK Media Awards – Shortlisted)

Most Inspirational Female Travellers On Instagram (Stylist)

Visit The USA Awards 2018 – Runner Up

Travel Instagrammers You Need To Be Following (The Handbook)

Top Travel Bloggers To Watch In 2017 (Hotels Combined)

Caribbean Tourism Awards – Runner Up

13 Fearless Female Travel Bloggers to Follow in 2018 (The Travelista)

100 Top Travel Blogs That Will Make You Want To Adventure The World (Showaround)

The Top Travel Blog For Women According To Google (Travel Fashion Girl)

17 Travel Bloggers You Need To Follow On Instagram (The Wanderlust Bug)

Top Travel Vloggers (MedSailors)

Top 20 Travel Instagram Accounts (A Lovely Planet)

Wanderlust chloe’s Freelance Writing

I’ve worked as a freelance writer for Wanderlust Magazine, Metro, The Telegraph and Huffington Post, covering the topics of food and travel.

You can check out my Metro features here and my Huffington Post articles here.

Inside Europa-Park: The Remainer Fantasy Land (The Telegraph)

10 Handy Trips For Solo Travel (Intrepid Travel)

Wanderlust Chloe’s Presenting And Interviews

EuroNews (2022) – Interview after winning Travel Influencer of the Year

TravMedia’s IMM (2022) – Presentation to PR delegates on influencer marketing.

Wanderlust Magazine (2021) – Presentation to readers about travel in Costa Rica.

Borderless Festival (2019) – Presentation to influencers on how to make money as a travel blogger.

Radio Interviews (2017) – Regional radio interviews as part of Eurostar’s Travel State Of Mind campaign

Lonely Planet – Getting A Taste Of New Orleans – Presenter of a video on New Orleans food scene for Lonely Planet and Three UK

Adventures In Hawaii – Presenter of a two-part series about Hawaii for Travelspective and GoBe.

Chile Travel Roadshow 2019 – Presentation to travel media about travelling in Chile.