Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/where-to-drink-in-singapore/

Title: Where to drink in Singapore

The city’s nightlife offerings are diverse and you’ll be spoilt for choice on the places to drink in Singapore. Whether you’re looking for rooftop bars or a watering hole for you and your vino-lovin’ pals, we’ve got you covered with this list.

Clarke Quay/Boat Quay

The riverside Clarke Quay and Boat Quay districts may be known as party central but there’s plenty more to discover. The live music scene is noteworthy: start at Clarke Quay’s Crazy Elephant bar to listen to the blues and Cuba Libre Café & Bar for Latin music.

Sports enthusiasts should head to Boomarang Bistro & Bar and Hero’s. Be serenaded by local bands and singers, in between the exhilarating matches.

For a no-frills night, visit Irish pub Molly Malone’s. During important sporting events, they screen live sports and attract throngs of diehards, kicking up into a frenzy.

If you’re planning a romantic date over cocktails, be sure to check out chic rooftop bar Southbridge. Enjoy a panoramic view of the Singapore skyline, while pairing your cocktails with oysters.

Ann Siang/Club Street

For a change, head to the Ann Siang Hill and Club Street area. Lined with bars and restaurants, this cozy enclave is popular for after-work drinks.



Start with restaurant-bar Oxwell & Co, which offers British-style bar staples to go with delicious cocktails. Skip your usual gin and tonic and opt for the bar’s specially invented drinks, which are made with fresh produce from Oxwell & Co’s herb garden.

For a hearty meal, head to PS.Café or try Gem Bar, which is known for its chunky gourmet burgers. Craving Japanese food? IZY Dining and Bar does small plates Japanese-style and has an extensive sake menu.

Need more drink-spiration? Check out Nutmeg and Clove for bespoke cocktails made just for you, or try Japanese-style bar Cache for whiskey, sake and craft beer.

Marina Bay

There’s far more than shopping and art-viewing to be done along this glitzy stretch of malls, museums and luxury hotels. It’s a nightlife hotspot too.



Begin your bar-hopping journey at Post Bar at the Fullerton Hotel. You'll be spoilt for choice when it comes to restaurant-bars with waterfront views: popular picks include Kinki Rooftop Bar, Lantern Bar at The Fullerton Bay Hotel, as well as the 1919 Restaurant & The Rooftop Bar and Overeasy which are close to the Merlion Park.

For a cosier cocktail spot, check out Orgo at the Esplanade, which is located at the arts venue’s rooftop. Here, you’ll get great views, while avoiding the crowds at the waterfront.



If you’re in the mood for a special treat, go for an epicurean experience at fine dining restaurants Spago, which boasts a lounge section with stellar views from the 57th floor.

Amp up your cocktail hour by zipping to the tallest rooftop bars in the vicinity. Favourites include Cé La Vi at Marina Bay Sands®, as well as 1-Altitude and LeVel 33. You’ll feel like you’re on top of the world!

Holland Village

Filled with almost door-to-door lines of restaurants, pubs and eateries, this bustling neighbourhood continues to be a hive of activity.



First up is Wala Wala Café Bar, which has been around for over 20 years in Holland Village and is known for live music performances. Restaurant-bar PARK is another popular pick. Dine on hearty steaks and burgers, then stay on for drinks after.

Looking for international grub? Head down to Baden Restaurant & Pub for German-style beers and bites. Or check out the Cambodian and Vietnamese-cuisine at restaurant-bar #WineTapasFriends by Indochine. We recommend having the spicy bar bites with plenty of beer.

For more drinking options, check out this list.