Link: https://nerdnomads.com/where-to-stay-in-tromso-norway

Title: Where To Stay In Tromso, Norway – A Local’s Guide To The Best Hotels In Tromsø

Tromsø is my hometown, where I`ve lived most of my life. Knowing the city inside out and having worked in Tromso’s hotel business, I have an excellent knowledge of the best hotels in Tromso. With lots of friends and family visiting over the years who have stayed at many of the Tromsø hotels, I have a pretty good idea of my top picks for where to stay in Tromso.

Tromso is a relatively small city with 75,000 inhabitants above the Arctic Circle in Norway. It is the most prominent city in Northern Norway and the fifth-largest in Norway, with one of Norway’s biggest Universities (more than 17,000 students). This makes Tromsø a vibrant city with great nightlife and many cafes and restaurants.

During the past ten years or so, Tromso has become hugely popular as a tourist destination, as there is plenty to see and do in Tromso and its surroundings. In winter, people come to see the Northern Lights, the snow, and the whales. In summer, the Midnight Sun shines all night, and the unspoiled nature and wildlife is the main attraction. Tromso is one of the best places to go mountain hiking and fjord fishing. With direct flights from several European cities and many cities within Norway, it is easy to get to Tromso.

The increasing number of visitors has led to a boom in the number of hotels and accommodations in Tromso, and visitors now have lots of options when deciding where to stay in Tromso.

In this article, we will give you a list of what we consider to be the best places to stay in Tromso. Here, you will find the best Tromso hotels and accommodations (in our opinion).

What Is The Best Accommodation In Tromso?

For us, the perfect Tromso accommodation has big enough rooms to store all our luggage and still have some space to walk around. We are massive fans of big, comfortable beds so that we can sleep soundly at night. And, of course, free and fast wifi is a must-have! Luckily, most hotels in Tromso meet these demands and have a high standard.

Norway is relatively expensive when it comes to accommodation, and Tromso is sadly no exception. Here, we have collected what we think are the best Tromsø accommodations for any budget. So, this article is for you whether you are looking for a top-end boutique hotel, a unique experience in a wilderness cabin, or a self-serviced apartment to save some money.

While most visitors to Tromso stay in the downtown area, staying outside the city has become popular with visitors who wish to be closer to nature to go skiing, hiking, fishing, or Northern Lights hunting. We have, therefore, included accommodation options for the most popular areas outside of Tromso – Sommaroy Island, Senja Island, and the Lyngen Alps.

Why You Should Not Stay At Airbnb In Tromso

The number of Airbnb accommodations in Tromso has exploded over the last few years. Investors buy up entire apartment buildings just to rent them out to sky-high prices on Airbnb, which has led to a housing shortage in Tromso. Airbnb has become a big problem for people, especially students, who struggle to find a place to live. Therefore, I strongly discourage booking an Airbnb in Tromso.

Instead, you should book an apartment at an apartment hotel through, for instance, Booking.com.

Important: None of the hotels recommended here are paid placements or have sponsored our blog in any way. I have worked in the hotel business in Tromso, so I know most hotels in Tromso quite well. We have also had friends and visitors stay in many of these hotels and provide us with valuable feedback. If you book through any of our links, we make a small commission at no extra cost to you. This helps keep our site running – so thank you in advance for your support! ♥

We hope you find this guide helpful in choosing the best place to stay in Tromso.

Where To Stay In Tromso – The 7 Best Places To Stay In Tromso

In this guide on where to stay in Tromsø (our hometown), we give you our favorite Tromso hotels.

﻿ ﻿

7 areas to stay in Tromso & around, with our favorite hotels

We have divided Tromso and its surrounding areas into seven areas:

Downtown Tromso (red on the map above) – The Best Tromso Hotels Tromso Island (brown) Tromdalen (yellow) Kvaloya Island (blue) – Best Accommodation In Tromso For Northern Lights Sommaroy Island (purple) – 1-hour drive from Tromso Lyngen Alps (black) – 1,5-hour drive from Tromso Senja Island (green) – 3-hour drive from Tromso

Most visitors stay in downtown Tromso (the red area on the map above). This is the main island of Tromso city (called Tromsøya or Tromso Island), where you find Tromso Airport and Tromso’s downtown with shops, restaurants, cafes, hotels, and museums. There are plenty of accommodation options on Tromso Island, most either by the harbor or on the streets close to Tromso’s main shopping street, Storgata.

Tromsoya Island is only 22.8-square-kilometer (8.8 sq mi), located between the mainland Tromsdalen (yellow area on the map above) and the big island Kvaloya (meaning Whale Island in English, blue area on the map above), where I live.

Bridges and tunnels connect Kvaloya Island, Tromso Island, and Tromsdalen; these three are considered Tromso City. It only takes about 15 minutes to drive from downtown Tromso to Kvaloya and 5 minutes from downtown to Tromsdalen.

It`s easy to get around Tromso by foot, bicycle, car, taxi, or bus. In downtown Tromso, everything is within walking distance. There are, however, no trains or underground in Tromso.

If you are planning on exploring the areas around Tromso, like Sommaroy Island (the purple area on the map above), Senja Island (the green area), and the Lyngen Alps (the black area), I recommend that you rent a car. Public transport is pretty limited once you get out of Tromso city.

Please continue reading to learn more about our favorite areas and hotels in Tromso. We hope you find this guide useful when planning your stay in Tromso. Have a fantastic visit to Tromso! ♥

1. Downtown Tromso

Harbor Area – Tromso’s Best Hotels

The hotels in the Tromso harbor area are the best in Tromso, in my opinion. They all have a fantastic sea view, including Tromso Harbor, Tromso Bridge, Tromsdalstinden Mountain, the cable car, and Tromso’s most famous landmark – The Arctic Cathedral.

Top End

Clarion Hotel The Edge

The Edge (a 4-star hotel) is the closest you get to a luxury hotel in Tromso, as there are no luxury 5-star hotels in the city. When you ask us locals, “What is Tromsø’s best hotel?” most will answer The Edge. It has a central location right by the sea, just a short walk from downtown Tromso’s only shopping mall, Nerstranda.

The Edge also has Tromsø’s only Skybar on the 11th floor with a spectacular panoramic view of Tromsø and the sea. The Skybar is very popular among the locals. We have dined several times at The Edge’s restaurant, The Social, and the food is excellent. We particularly like The Social Burger.

Just across the street from The Edge Hotel is the “Havneterminalen,” also known as “Prostneset” – the Port Of Tromsø. Here, you find shops, restaurants, Hertz and Europcar car rentals, and tourist information Visit Tromsø. The speed boats to Harstad, Finnsnes, and several other places in Northern Norway depart from here. Clarion Hotel The Edge is ranked no. 2 at TripAdvisor.

Click here for the latest prices and availability at The Edge Hotel

Scandic Ishavshotel

The 4-star Scandic Ishavshotel has a great location right on the pier, and the building looks like a big ship, meaning that the rooms have an excellent view of the sea. They renovated all the rooms a few years back, so it`s all fresh and modern.

Ishavshotel is famous for its amazing breakfast, which has won the “Best Breakfast in Norway” award several times. The Hurtigruten anchors up just outside the hotel, so this is a convenient place to stay if you plan on taking the Hurtigruten.

The open space between Scandic Ishavshotel and Radisson Blu Hotel is the pickup place for many sightseeing tours in Tromsø. So, Scandic Ishavhotell is a convenient place to stay if you plan on booking and going on a guided tour, like a dog sledding tour, northern light tour, fjord cruise, or reindeer tour. Scandic Ishavshotel is ranked no. 3 on TripAdvisor.

Click here for the latest prices and availability at the Scandic Ishavshotel

Clarion Collection Hotel With

Hotel With, as it is known locally, is a 4-star hotel with a perfect location right by Tromso Harbour. You get a beautiful view of the sea, the Arctic Cathedral, the Tromso Bridge, Tromsdalstinden mountain, and Fjellheisen by staying here.

You are right in the middle of everything if you stay at Hotel With, close to all the city’s restaurants and shops.

An extra plus at this hotel is that you get free coffee/tea and Norwegian waffles with sour cream, jam, and brown cheese (Espen`s favorite!) in the afternoon (from 15 to 18 o`clock) and a free meal in the evening (from 18 to 21 o`clock). This makes Hotel With a good value for your money. Clarion Collection Hotel has been ranked no. 1 on TripAdvisor for years due to its freebies like complimentary breakfast, coffee/ tea all day, afternoon waffles, and evening dinner. I recommend getting a room facing the harbor, as the fantastic sea view is worth it.

Click here for the latest prices and availability at the Clarion Collection Hotel With

Clarion Collection Hotel Aurora

Next door to Clarion Collection Hotel With, you will find its sister hotel, Clarion Collection Hotel Aurora (a 4-star hotel). It is a newer hotel than With, with an excellent location right by the sea and a great harbor view.

This hotel also has breakfast, free waffles in the afternoon, and an evening meal included in the price. As food is expensive in Tromso, staying at Hotel Aurora is a good deal. It is also one of the few downtown hotels with onsite parking.



The extra plus of this hotel is the rooftop jacuzzi and sauna! Here, you can relax in the evenings and watch the northern lights from the hot tub. An awesome experience if you ask me!

Click here for the latest prices and availability at the Clarion Collection Hotel Aurora

Around The Main Shopping Street Storgata – Budget Hotels With Central Location

The walking street Storgata runs right through the downtown of Tromso. The hotels in the streets around the main street, Storgata, are a bit cheaper than the ones by the harbor.

The hotels in this area don`t have the same spectacular views as the harbor hotels, but they are just as centrally located, and everything is still within easy walking distance.

Top End

Radisson Blu Hotel Tromso

Radisson Blu Hotel is a big, modern 4-star hotel with a great location in the middle of everything. The hotel’s gem is the rooftop sauna on the 10th floor (free for all guests) overlooking the harbor. It is fantastic to relax and heat up here after a night out hunting for northern lights in the cold. There is a gym on the 10th floor. I used to work here on weekends when I studied Computer Science at the University of Tromso, so I know this hotel very well. 🙂

The hotel has a booking desk for information and booking of tours like dog sledding, reindeer trips, and northern light trips. Radisson Blu and the open space outside the hotel entrance is the pick-up place for many guided tours in and around Tromso. Radisson Blu Hotel was completely renovated in 2016, and its 269 rooms are all fresh with a modern, Scandinavian interior design.

Radisson Blu is a popular conference hotel, often booked by the University of Tromso. It might get fully booked if they are the host of a big conference, so make sure to book this hotel early if you want to stay here.

This hotel owns and runs the popular pizza place Yonas Pizzeria (try their specialty Taco Pizza, my favorite!) and Norway’s most famous pub Rorbua. The popular Norwegian TV show “Du skal høre mye” was recorded at Rorbua Pub from 1987 until 2003. Rorbua has live music from Wednesday to Saturday. The pizza place and the pub are both located just next to the hotel.

Click here for the latest prices and availability at the Radisson Blu Hotel Tromso

Quality Hotel Saga

Known to us locals as the “Gold Hotel” due to its bright and shiny golden facade, the 4-star Quality Hotel Saga is one of the oldest hotels in Tromso. However, parts of the hotel are newly renovated, and that`s when they got their golden front.

The 103 rooms are spacious, but some bathrooms could need a facelift. All bathrooms do have heated floors, however, which is nice.

The hotel is pet-friendly, and you get free coffee and tea throughout your stay and free waffles in the afternoon (from 15:00). Some rooms face the harbor and have a beautiful sea- and mountain view.

Click here for the latest prices

Budget

Thon Hotel Tromsø & Thon Hotel Polar

The Thon Hotel Tromsø and Thon Hotel Polar are similar 3-star hotels located across the street from each other. They have a central location just 100 m from Tromso’s main shopping street, Storgata. They serve excellent breakfasts with many choices, and Nespresso coffee machines are in all rooms and the lounge area. All rooms have a private bathroom and TV with a chrome cast. The rooms at both hotels are between 15 and 20 sqm. Pets are allowed at Thon Hotel Polar but not at Thon Hotel Tromsø. Thon Hotel Polar seems slightly more expensive than Thoel Hotel Tromsø, but it varies throughout the year. Otherwise, they are basically the same.

Click here for the latest prices and availability on the Thon Hotel Tromso

Click here for the latest prices and availability on the Thon Hotel Polar

Enter City Apartment Hotel

The 4-star Enter City Hotel is an apartment hotel with excellent value for your money! It has a central location just 100 m from Tromso’s shopping street, Storgata.

The rooms are well-equipped apartments (16 – 28 sqm) with a small kitchen, which is convenient for making breakfast, lunch, or even dinner. That way, you can save some money by shopping at one of the nearby supermarkets and cooking your own food. You get tea and coffee for free at the hotel.

The price includes no breakfast since all rooms have a small kitchen, but you can buy breakfast at one of their sister hotels nearby. All rooms have a private bathroom with a heated floor.



The hotel has a laundry room (washing machines and dryers) that the guests can use for free. Very handy as dry cleaning is expensive, and there are no other options in town if you want to get your clothes washed. The Superior Twin Rooms (28 sqm) can house up to four people and have a dishwasher in the kitchen.

Click here for the latest prices

Comfort Hotel Xpress Tromso

Comfort Hotel Xpress is a budget 3-star hotel with an excellent and central location in Grønnegata, adjacent to the city’s shopping street, Storgata. It is probably the cheapest hotel in Tromso, with prices around US$ 70 for two adults if you book well ahead.

The hotel rooms are clean, modern, and cozy but a bit small (12 – 14 sqm). If you are out all day on tours and sightseeing, then the tiny rooms will not be a problem. All rooms have a private bathroom with a heated floor and a TV.

There is no daily housekeeping service. They clean the rooms every fourth day, but you can pay extra if you want it cleaned daily. The hotel has no restaurant, but it is very close to all of Tromso’s restaurants and cafes.

You can buy snacks and drinks from the lobby shop, which is open 24-7. Another highlight of this hotel is the washing room (with washers and dryers), where you can do your laundry (very convenient).



You can buy breakfast at the hotel (sandwiches, juice, tea, and coffee). Unfortunately, there is no kettle in the rooms, but hot water is available in the lobby free of charge all day and night.

Click here for the latest prices and availability on the Comfort Hotel Xpress Tromso

Vervet – Tromso’s Newest & Hippest Area

The newest and hippest area in downtown Tromso is Vervet. There used to be an old shipyard here, but over the last few years, this harbor area of town (next to the Tromso Bridge) has been completely renovated and constructed into a hip area of apartment buildings, restaurants, bars, and a bakery. Vervet is often compared to Oslo’s Aker Brygge.

Here, you find my favorite Tromso restaurant, Maskinverkstedet, and my favorite cafe in Tromso, Vervet Bakery. I l-o-v-e their cinnamon buns (a must-try!) and macarons.

Delicious macarons at Vervet Bakery Vervet Bakery makes Tromso's best cinnamon buns

The views from Vervet are also spectacular and well worth a visit, even if you don’t plan on staying here.

At Vervet, you also find some of Tromso’s biggest tourist attractions, like Skansen Fort and the Polar Museum. And since it is just next to Tromso Bridge, you can easily walk over the bridge to the Arctic Cathedral and the Cable Car.

Scandic is building the biggest hotel in Northern Norway at Vervet – Scandic Vervet Tromsø Hotel. It will have 305 rooms and plans to open in 2025.

TA Apartments Vervet

Total Apartments (TA) rents out apartments at the brand-new apartment building at Vervet, both short-term and long-term. The apartments have a high standard, a fully equipped kitchen (including a dishwasher, oven, coffee machine, and fridge), a private bathroom (with a washing machine and dryer), a TV, and a seating area. All apartments have a balcony.

There is a rooftop terrace at the top of the building, with a garden. Private parking in the basement parking lot (perfect if you plan on renting a car). I love the modern interior design of the apartments and the fabulous sea-, city-, and mountain views. They have two types of apartments for rent:

TA Vervet Gjøa – Has a minimum length of stay of 2 nights. One-bedroom apartments (42 sqm, up to four people) and two-bedroom apartments (52 sqm, up to five people).

Click here for the latest prices and availability on TA Vervet Gjøa

TA Vervet Fram – Two-bedroom apartments (50 or 60 sqm, up to four people) and three-bedroom apartments (80 sqm, up to six people). Some of these apartments have a fantastic sea view and a fireplace. Fun fact: “Fram” is the name of the ship that the Norwegian explorers Fridtjof Nansen, Otto Sverdrup, Oscar Wisting, and Roald Amundsen used to explore the Arctic and Antarctica in 1893 – 1912. You can see the Fram ship at the Fram Museum in Oslo.

Click here for the latest prices and availability on TA Vervet Fram

2. Tromso Island

Enter St. Elisabeth Suites

This 4-star hotel is one of Tromso’s newest (opened at the end of 2022) and is located a 10-minute walk south of Tromso’s shopping and restaurant area. This is an apartment hotel, and the apartments are beautiful, with a fully-equipped kitchen with a dishwasher, dining area, TV, and a private bathroom with a heated floor. The hotel serves breakfast (cost extra) and has a fitness room and a terrace with a spectacular 360-degree view of Tromso. The hotel will open a spa (with a pool) at the end of 2023. There is a big private parking lot right outside the hotel. The stylish apartments are quite big (35 sqm) and can house up to four people. Some apartments have a fabulous sea view. There is a washing machine in some apartments as well.

Click here for the latest prices and availability on the Enter St Elisabeth Suites

Moxy Tromso

Tromso’s newest hotel star is Moxy Tromso (opened in April 2023), located close to Tromso airport. It is a 10-minute drive from downtown Tromso, within walking distance to Tromso’s biggest shopping mall, Jekta. Moxy Tromso is Marriott Bonvoy’s northernmost hotel.

The highlight of Moxy Tromso is its view! The reception, Sky bar, and restaurant are on the top floor with floor-to-ceiling windows and a spectacular view of the sea and mountains on Kvaloya Island. Checking in here gives you the best welcome to Tromso ever.

The 208 rooms are all 18 sqm, so they are not the biggest, but they are smartly furnished to maximize the space and have all the amenities needed. The rooms facing south have spectacular views of the sea and mountains. All rooms have air-con, a 55-inch TV, and a private bathroom with a heated floor. I love the modern, Scandinavian-style interior design. Pets are allowed, and the hotel has a fitness room and a big parking lot right outside (convenient if you plan on renting a car). The breakfast is served in the top-floor restaurant where you can eat and enjoy the fantastic sea- and mountain view. The rooms have blinds on the windows so you can get a good sleep during the summer (with the Midnight Sun), and are soundproof so you will not hear the planes taking off/ landing at the nearby airport.

Click here for the latest prices and availability on the Moxy Tromso

3. Tromsdalen (Mainland)

♦ Best Place to Stay On A Budget

Tromsdalen is on the mainland of Tromso and is only a 15-minute walk over the bridge from downtown Tromso. It is a nice and quiet residential area to stay in, with mainly private homes. The accommodations in Tromsdalen are generally cheaper than in downtown Tromsø and are a great place to stay for budget travelers.

Tromsdalen houses some of Tromso’s most famous landmarks – The Arctic Cathedral and the Cable Car up to Floya Mountain, a few restaurants (like Alegro Pizza), a shopping mall (Pyramiden), and Tromso Alpine Center.

Tromso Lodge & Camping

Tromso Camping is a good value for your money. Here, you can stay in cozy modern cottages, all with beds, a seating area, and a TV. The cabins have either shared or private bathrooms. They all have a small patio, and some have a kitchen. There is also a kitchen in the main building that everyone can use. Free parking and WIFI. You get access to a sauna and a bar, and a football field is right by the camping.

This place is beautifully located in Tromsdalen (mainland) by the Tromsdal River, a five-minute drive from downtown Tromso. From here, you can easily step out for a hike or walk in the beautiful nature or hike up to Floya or Tromsdalstinden mountain. Kroken Alpine Center is also close by.

There are no restaurants nearby, but the bus stop is a 10-minute walk away and there is a supermarket 20 minutes walk from Tromso Camping. It is close to the Arctic Cathedral. Tromso Camping is located in a quiet area, and it`s the perfect place to watch the Northern Lights.

Click here for the latest prices

Tromsø City Apartments

Located only a short walk from the Arctic Cathedral (less than 1 km), Tromsø City Apartments offers fresh and newly renovated one-bedroom apartments (can house up to three people). Each apartment has its own kitchen (with a dining area), a living room (with a sofa), a private bathroom, plus access to a patio and a lovely garden. You can go cross-country skiing in the tracks (“lysløypa”) close to the apartments. I love the fresh and modern design of the apartments; the large windows and the interior wood make it feel very homey and cabin-like. You can easily walk into downtown Tromso (a 20-minute walk) or take the bus (the bus stop is only a 5-minute walk away). Free parking.

Click here for the latest prices

Arctic Villa In Tromsø

Here, you can stay in one of Tromso’s oldest and most stunning villas. You have a fantastic view over the city and the fjord from the lovely garden and balcony of the house. You can choose between a big three-bedroom apartment (up to six people) and a smaller one-bedroom apartment. Each apartment has a kitchen, a private bathroom, and a living room (with a sofa). The cable car is just behind the house. Free parking. Barbecue facilities in the big garden that surrounds the house.

Click here for the latest prices

Aera Panorama Glass Lodge

Aera is probably the most unique place to stay in Tromso. Here, you get to stay in brand-new (opened in August 2023) and super cool cabins with a glass front (floor-to-ceiling windows on all walls and a glass roof!). The 360-degree view is spectacular, and I can imagine how awesome it must be to lay in bed watching the Northern Lights, sea, and mountains from the warm and cozy bed! It can hardly get any better! However, not all cabins have a 360-degree glass front, so be aware when you book. The cabins are 18 – 30 sqm in size (some with a separate bedroom) and have a well-equipped kitchen and a private bathroom. The cabins are a part of Skittenelv Camping and is the only accommodation in Tromso with a swimming pool (outdoor and only open in summer). Skittenelv Camping has a restaurant and bar and free parking. Breakfast is included. It takes about 30 minutes to drive from downtown Tromso to Aera Panorama Glass Lodge one way.

Click here for the latest prices and availability at the Aera Panorama Glass Lodge

4. Kvaloya (Whale Island)

♦ Best Accommodation In Tromso For Northern Lights

Kvaloya, where I`m from, is a big, beautiful island located next to Tromsoya (downtown Tromso). It is connected to Tromso Island by a bridge located next to the airport. It takes about 15 min to drive from downtown Tromso to Kvaloya, and you can easily get there by bus.

Kvaloya is the perfect place to enjoy nature and go hiking, skiing, fishing, Northern Lights watching, dog sledding, whale watching, kayaking, and snowshoeing.

Kvaloya has some of the best mountains in Tromso for hiking, climbing, and off-piste skiing and snowboarding, with the area Kattfjordeidet as my favorite and the place with the most spectacular mountains.

Kvaloya is also the best area to watch the Northern Lights, with Kattfjordeidet and Ersfjord being my favorite places, as there are few artificial lights there.

Yggdrasil Farmhotel Retreat & Spa

This beautiful accommodation is located on a farm on Bakkejord on Kvaloya, a one-hour drive from downtown Tromso. It is run by the super friendly couple Eivind and Maria and is surrounded by sea, fjord, and mountains. It is an excellent place for hiking, skiing, snowshoeing, and Northern Lights watching.

You can enjoy a real Norweigan outdoor jacuzzi, a sauna, go for a boat trip on the fjord with the owner Eivind, or rent skis here.

A delicious breakfast is included in the price, and you can have dinner (delicious home-cooked Norwegian dinner made by the owner Maria) here. There are free WIFI and parking on site.

You stay in cozy cabins, where some have a private bathroom and some shared bathroom. You can use the shared kitchen and lounge with a stunning view over the fjord. And if you like animals, you can help out feeding the farm’s chickens, say hello to the goats, sheep, and horses, or play with the dogs, cats, and rabbits.

This is pretty remote, so expect to have complete silence when you sleep and wake up. The only thing you can hear is the ocean and the animals on the farm.

Click here for the latest prices

Ersfjordbotn Brygge

Located in the beautiful fjord Ersfjord on Kvaloya (a 30 min drive from downtown Tromso), Ersfjordbotn Brygge is a great place to stay if you want to get out of town, see the Northern Lights, have some peace and quiet, and be in one with nature. It is right by the fjord with spectacular views of Ersfjord and its surrounding mountains.

All apartments have a private bathroom, a sitting and/or dining area, and a kitchen. The apartments are quite big (67 sqm), and have two bedrooms that can sleep up to five people. All apartments have a balcony with fantastic views over the fjord. There is free WI-FI in all units and free parking on site.

Ersfjordbotn Brygge offers a transport service to the airport, city center, and supermarket, or you can take the bus out here, but having a rental car is more convenient. You have to bring your own food, but the kitchen is well equipped, and on your way out to Ersfjord you pass the best supermarket in Tromso – Eide Handel where you will find all the food you need and did not know that you needed. 🙂 The supermarkets are, however, closed on Sundays in Norway.

Ersfjord is one of the most popular and beautiful fjords around Tromso and is a trendy area for Northern Lights photography. Ersfjord also has a famous and popular cafe, Bryggejentene, which is open every day except Sundays.

Ersfjord is also an excellent place for hiking, skiing, and snowshoeing, and you can hike several mountains like the Nattmålstiden/Klokka Ti mountain and Buren from here. Pets are allowed, and there is a washing room (with washing machines and dryers). They only accept at least 2-night bookings.

Click here for the latest prices

Vengsøy Rorbuer

Vengsøy Rorbuer is not on Kvaloya Island but on a small island outside of Kvaloya called Vengsoy Island, a short 30-min ferry trip from Belvik on Kvaloya Island. The ferry trip is stunning; you can see fjords and small islands.

The fishermen’s cabins (called rorbuer in Norwegian) at Vengsøy Rorbuer are beautifully located by the sea with a fantastic fjord and mountain view. The cabins have three bedrooms (can house up to six people), a fully-equipped kitchen, a private bathroom, and a patio right on the pier. It is the perfect place to watch the Northern Lights. You can rent a boat or have a dip in the hot tub. A grocery store is right across the road from the cabins, which is very convenient. Vengsøy Rorbu Hotel is owned and managed by the lovely Maria, the sweetest and most friendly host.

Click here for the latest prices

5. Sommaroy (Summer Island)

A 1-hour drive from Tromso city

Outside of Kvaloya is a small island called Sommaroy (Summer Island). It is connected to Kvaloya by a bridge and is a 1-hour drive from downtown Tromso.

Sommaroy is a small fishing community with houses, cabins, a church, a school, a kindergarten, and a nice hotel – the Sommaroy Arctic Hotel.

Sommaroy is my favorite place to visit when I want to get out of the city and feel the sea air in my hair, especially during summertime, as it has some beautiful beaches and stunning sea views. Many people come to Sommaroy for a picnic or an overnight tent trip. From here, you can watch as The Midnight Sun hovers just above the waterline yet never quite sets into the ocean. It is the best place to see the Midnight Sun in Tromso, and we make sure to come here at least one time each summer.

There are also several outstanding hiking options in the area.

During the winter (September – April), Sommaroy Island is a great place to watch the northern lights as the light pollution is much less than in the city.

Stop at the excellent grocery shop & cafe Eide Handel on your way out to Sommaroy. Buy some of their delicious and famous sausages, “Eidepølsa” and have a barbecue on the beach at Sommaroy.

Sommaroy Arctic Hotel

Sommaroy Arctic Hotel is the perfect place to stay if you want to have a modern and comfortable stay with the service of a hotel while having peace and quiet, and being in one with nature. Sommaroy Arctic Hotel is located on the beautiful small island of Sommaroy just outside of Kvaloya (a 1-hour drive from downtown Tromso).

This hotel offers standard hotel rooms, apartments, and cabins (Rorbue) right by the sea and beach. The cabins have several bedrooms and can house a big family or group of friends.

Part of the hotel is newly refurbished and has excellent sea views. All rooms and apartments have a private bathroom.

The hotel has a restaurant where you can have delicious breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and you can enjoy a wood-fired sauna and an outdoor hot tub where you can enjoy the Northern Lights (if you are lucky) or the Midnight Sun.

You can book many activities at the hotel, like a fjord boat trip, whale safari, and kayak trip. The hotel is perfect as a base for outdoor activities like hiking, and you can hike both Ørnfløya and Hillesøy Mountain from here.

The hotel is popular for conferences and workshops, and I have stayed here several times when I worked at the University of Tromso.

Click here for the latest prices

6. The Lyngen Alps

A 1,5-hour drive from Tromso city

Lyngen, with its peaky mountains that go straight down into the fjord, is a breathtaking area north of Tromso, about an hour and a half from downtown Tromso by car and ferry. Lyngen is excellent for hiking, ice climbing, glacier trekking, skiing, kayaking, fishing, and mountain or road biking.

We drive through the Lyngen Alps on our way to our family cabin in Kvaenangen, and I love this Arctic and alpine landscape.

To get to The Lyngen Alps, drive from Tromso to Breivikeidet (a 1-hour car ride). Take the ferry from Breivikeidet to Svendsby in Lyngen (the ferry trip takes 20 min). Taking the ferry is well worth the trip in itself as it is a beautiful ferry trip across a fjord with a fantastic view of the Lyngen Alps and its breathtaking mountain and fjord landscape.

From Svendsby, you can drive through Lyngen to Lyngseidet and take another ferry from Lyngseidet to Olderdalen. From Olderdalen, you can drive back to Tromso. The drive from Olderdalen back to Tromso City takes about 2,5 hours (without taking any ferry).

You can find the full driving route Tromso City – Breivikeidet – Lyngseidet – Olderdalen – Tromso City (about 5 hours in total), including the two ferries, here (Google Maps).

Aurora Fjord Cabins

Located just next to the famous Bivrost Spirits and Whisky Distillery, the Aurora Fjord Cabins are beautifully located at the seashore. The ten mini houses all have a spectacular view of the fjord and mountains. Here you really get to enjoy nature, go hiking, and skiing, or sit in the outdoor hot tub watching the Northern Lights or Midnight Sun. I love the floor-to-ceiling windows, and that all cabins have a fully equipped kitchen. The cabins are quite big (25 sqm), and have one bedroom, living room, private bathroom, and a kitchen.

Click here for the latest prices and availability on the Aurora Fjord Cabins

XLyngen

The red, cozy, and modern fishermen’s cabins (called rorbuer in Norwegian) at XLyngen are perfectly located right by the sea in Nord-Lenangen in the Lyngen Alps. Here, you stay in apartments with a fully-equipped private kitchen, free wifi, flat-screen TV, and a private bathroom. All cabins have excellent fjord views. A bonus is a sauna and hot tub on the pier, perfect for watching the Northern Lights or enjoying the Midnight Sun. You can also rent a boat here to go fishing or head out on the fjord for a boat trip. It is a great place to stay to hike the Lyngen Alps (like the popular Blue Ice Water or “Blåisvannet” in Norwegian).

Click here for the latest prices

Koppangen Brygger

The new and modern Koppangen Brygger is located right by the fjord and seaside, a 20-minute drive from the Lyngseidet town center (with shops). Here, you get to stay in comfortable and modern rooms with amazing views of the fjord and mountains of the Lyngen Alps. It is the perfect place to view the Northern Lights as there is no light pollution here.

You can choose between apartments (2, 3, or 4 bedrooms) perfect for families or a group of friends or double rooms. Each room/ apartment has free WIFI, a private bathroom with a shower, a TV, and a patio to sit outside and enjoy the spectacular views. You get access to a fully equipped kitchen, including a dishwasher and a microwave. Koppangen Brygger also has a hot tub that you can use for free as much as you want, as well as barbecue facilities, meeting rooms, ski storage, and ski equipment hire. You get free parking.

You can hardly stay any closer to nature than at Koppangen Brygger. This is the perfect place to stay if you want to go fishing, skiing, mountain hiking, or biking.

Click here for the latest prices

Farmstay At Solheim Fritidsgård

If you love animals and nature and have always dreamt of staying at a farm, then Solheim Fritidsgård is the place to stay! It is located on Svendsby, close to where the ferry from Breivikeidet arrives and is beautifully located by the sea and in between mountains.

The units have a fully equipped kitchen, laundry facilities, dining area, and a terrace. The farm owners can organize a dog sledding or snowmobile trip for you. You can also say hi to the cow, take the dog for a walk, or try fresh cow milk.

Click here for the latest prices

7. Senja Island

A 3-hour drive from Tromso city

Another popular area to visit and stay close to Tromso is Senja Island (a 3-hour drive from Tromso). Senja is a beautiful island with stunning nature, beaches, fjords, and mountains. It is the perfect place to see the Northern Lights and the Midnight Sun.

You can drive there either by the road inland or out to Sommaroy and take the ferry to Senja (Botnhamn) from Brensholmen. The ferry now runs the whole year round. You can find the driving route from Tromso Center to Senja Island here (Google Maps).

Hamn i Senja

The drive from downtown Tromso to the hotel Hamn i Senja takes about 3 hours and is breathtaking! You drive through a beautiful landscape of fjords, mountains, and islands.

Hamn i Senja is my favorite place to stay on Senja. The property is stunning, modern, and well-maintained. Here you can stay in apartments (two or three bedrooms) and rooms (double, twin or triple room), with great views over the sea and fjord. All rooms have a private bathroom.

You get free WIFI and free parking. They also have a great restaurant, bar, and a nice gift shop. This hotel is excellent for outdoor activities, like hiking, fishing, skiing, kayaking, and snowshoeing, and you can rent a bicycle at the hotel and explore Senja Island yourself. The hotel arranges many different tours for their guests.

Click here for the latest prices

Aurora Borealis Observatory

The Aurora Borealis Observatory is an accommodation in Silsand on Senja Island (a 10-minute drive from Finnsnes town). It is a fantastic place to see the Northern Lights as there is hardly any artificial lightning in the area. They have an impressive Instagram account with a huge amount of followers.

Here, you can go skiing (they have skis for rent), snowshoeing, or hiking in the summer, and enjoy the fantastic hot spring bath (while hopefully seeing the Northern Lights). All apartments have a kitchen, seating area, dining area, and a private bathroom. Some have a patio. You can choose between different-sized apartments/ cabins. The biggest villa has three bedrooms and can house up to six people.

Click here for the latest prices

Unique Places To Stay In Tromso

Tromso Ice Domes

Spending a night at the amazing Tromso Ice Domes Hotel will surely be a night to remember! This is probably the most unique Arctic accommodation ever! The entire hotel is made of ice, even the bar, hotel rooms, and restaurant. How cool is that?! 🙂

Included in this overnight stay is the transport from and back to Tromso (a 75 beautiful drive each way through a mountain and fjord landscape), a guide for your entire stay, a guided snowshoeing/ Northern Lights trip in the evening, dinner cooked on an open fire, a non-alcoholic drink in the super cool ice bar, breakfast the next morning, and all the warm clothes and equipment that will make this a comfortable and fun experience.

You will get picked up in downtown Tromso at 17:00/ 5 pm and will arrive at the Ice Domes Hotel at 18:30/ 6:30 pm where you will be greeted by your personal guide, who will help you through your entire stay. At night, you will be sleeping on a real, normal, and comfortable mattress (not of ice or snow) covered in reindeer skin. So warm and comfortable! So don´t worry, you will not freeze to death during the night! It is actually quite warm inside the ice rooms. You will head out on a nice evening snowshoe walk with a guide where you can see the Northern Lights (if the sky is clear).

The next morning, after a warm and comfortable night, you will be served a delicious breakfast at 09:00. You can then go for a snowshoe walk in the beautiful surroundings of the mountains, and join a dog sledding, snowmobile, or reindeer sledding/ feeding tour. You will be transferred back to downtown Tromso by bus and back in the city by 15:30/ 3:30 pm. This is a unique and memorable winter wonderland adventure that you will never forget!

Click here for information and the latest prices on an overnight stay at Tromso Ice Domes Hotel

Overnight Dogsledding Tour

I love dog sledding! The feeling of silently gliding through the stunning landscape of mountains and fjords that surround Tromso, pulled by huskies, is a fantastic experience! I highly recommend that you go on a dogsledding trip as it is great fun! You can, of course, do it as a day trip or an evening Northern Lights tour.

But you will have an even more adventurous wildlife experience if you do this 2-day overnight Aurora Camp, which includes dog sledding. Transportation, all food and drinks, and the overnight stay are included.

Overnight Fjord Kayaking Tour

A big part of Tromso is the sea and islands, as Tromso city consists of several big and small islands. To truly experience this city by the sea, you should head out to the fjords and experience the landscape and wildlife at sea.

Kayaking is a great way to experience Tromso’s fjord and island landscape and has become extremely popular among tourists and locals.

You can, of course, go on a Kayaking day trip, but it is even more fun and rewarding also to spend the night at a remote island. You can choose a two or three-day tour to experience the islands north of Tromso city, to the nature reserves island called Rebbenesøya.

You will sleep in a comfortable and warm Yurt (a portable, round tent covered with skins or felt) on a remote island with no roads. If you are lucky, you can even sleep under the Northern Lights. During the kayaking trip, you will see Arctic sea animals like white-tailed eagles, otters, seals – even dolphins pass the camp occasionally.

Although Tromso is a relatively small city, it has many accommodation options, everything from hotels and hostels to private homes, apartments, glass domes, ice domes, tents, and Norwegian rorbuer/ cabins.

People who visit Tromso also tend to want to see the surroundings of Tromso and get out into the arctic nature to see the Northern Lights or the Midnight Sun. It can be nice to spend a night or two in the remote parts of Tromso, like Kvaloya, Sommaroy, Senja, or Lyngen. I, therefore, think it`s best to rent a car, although there are bus and boat options as well.

There is plenty to see and do in Tromso City itself, so if you only have a couple of days or a weekend in Tromso, you should choose accommodation in the downtown of Tromso. You will have more than enough activities to choose from by staying in Tromso city itself.

Since it`s pretty cold in Tromso year-round, you should pack a little differently than on your usual city trip to a city in further south Europe.

Hopefully, you now know a little bit more about Tromso, its areas and surroundings, and what accommodations Tromso has to offer, and it has become easier for you to decide where to stay in Tromso. Good luck, and have a wonderful stay in the capital of Northern Norway, Tromso – The Paris Of The North and The Gateway To The Arctic! 🙂

PIN IT FOR LATER!

Hover over the picture below and press the red “Save” button to Pin:

Have you been to Tromso, or are you planning a trip to Tromso? What is important to you when searching for Tromso accommodation? Do you prefer to stay in downtown Tromso, or stay outside the city? Please leave a comment in the comment area below! We`d love to hear from you! If you like this article and find it useful, please share it on social media. Thank you! 🙂