Link: https://nerdnomads.com/where-to-stay-in-singapore#respond

Title: Where to Stay in Singapore – Our Favorite Areas & Hotels

Are you traveling to Singapore and wondering where to stay? Then look no further; here, we give you the ultimate guide on where to stay in Singapore (updated 2023). It includes the most popular neighborhoods and our favorite hotels at all price ranges.

If you’re flying into Singapore straight from the US or Europe, it may at first feel like you have not traveled very far at all. On the surface, it is perhaps the most “non-Asian” of all Asian countries. The radio hosts speak English, the cab driver will insist that you wear your seatbelt, and prices are just as high as back home.

But dig a little beneath the surface, and Singapore will reveal its charm, diversity, and ethnic roots. Even though the island city-state of Singapore is quite small, it has many unique neighborhoods and a well of accommodations. Therefore, deciding where to stay in Singapore can feel a bit overwhelming.

It is almost like you are visiting several different countries and cultures just by walking between the different neighborhoods of Singapore. From the lively and colorful Little India to the charming hipster-like Kampong Glam, to the enormous shopping malls along Orchard Road, the impressively posh and futuristic Marina Bay, the bustling nightlife of the Quays, the beautiful colonial buildings of the Colonial District, and the kid-friendly entertainment and beach hub Sentosa Island with Universal Studios.

We first visited Singapore in 2002, on our way back home to Norway from Australia, where we studied, and we immediately fell in love with this city/ country. We try to visit Singapore every time we are in Asia, which means almost every year, and we have stayed in many different hotels all over the city and at different price ranges.

For a while now, we have been wanting to write more articles about Singapore, but things can change fast, and we did not want to just rely on past experiences. So we booked a flight and spent a month in Singapore exploring the city like never before.

One of the results is this guide on where to stay in Singapore with all the little hotel gems we could find. Here we reveal what we think are the best areas to stay in Singapore and why. We have listed our favorite hotels at any budget for each area – Top-End, Mid-Range, and Budget.

Latest Updates: We last visited Singapore in April 2023 to thoroughly update this guide to Singapore’s best hotels and areas. We wanted to see if our old hotel favorites were still going strong, and along the way, we also discovered some new favorites that we are excited to share with you!

Where To Stay In Singapore

Whether you are looking for that once-in-a-lifetime luxury hotel, a small intimate boutique hotel, a value-for-money mid-range hotel, or a budget guesthouse, Singapore has a comprehensive collection of them all.

You must be warned, though, that Singapore is among the most expensive cities in Asia. Singapore has been dubbed the world’s most expensive city to live in for the fifth year in a row, which is also reflected in the hotel prices. That said, in this guide, we reveal some good value options for your money, so there is no need to panic. 🙂

Singapore is also the only major city where we have experienced landing at the airport, only to be told that the city’s hotels are all fully occupied and that no rooms are available anywhere! Thankfully, it turned out to be a slight exaggeration, but a huge dentist conference was happening, and every major hotel was full. We managed to find a place to stay in the end, but we had to pay far more than we had budgeted, and ever since then, we always book ahead when visiting Singapore.

The hotels recommended in this article are primarily places we have stayed at (and, as always, paid for) ourselves. However, to make this as complete and helpful a resource as possible, we have included some recommendations from travelers we know personally and whose opinions we trust.

Important: None of the hotels in this guide are paid placements or have sponsored our stay in any way. If you book through any of our links, we earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. This helps keep our site going – so thank you in advance for your support! ♥

We hope you find this guide helpful in choosing the best place to stay in Singapore.

Singapore’s 9 Best Areas To Stay In

Although Singapore is rather small, 728.6 km², it has almost 6 million inhabitants from all over the world. The different neighborhoods have their own character, which reflects their people and culture in a unique way.

Where you base yourself matters, both when it comes to whether or not the attractions are within walking distance and if you have many different restaurants, cafes, and shops to choose from. That said, Singapore is a fairly easy city to get around in, both by taxi/ Grab and public transport like the metro and buses.

We have decided to divide Singapore into nine areas that are suitable for tourists and visitors to stay in.

Here is an overview of Singapore`s nine most popular areas to stay in (updated in 2022):

Orchard Road Area

Singapore’s main shopping area. The whole street is lined with huge modern shopping malls. The most central area to stay in, you can walk to most of the main attractions. Several of the big international hotel chains are located here. Colonial/ Historic District

Beautiful old colonial buildings, museums, and art galleries. Here you find some of Singapore’s most iconic and luxurious hotels, like the Raffles. Marina Bay Area

The iconic Marina Bay Sands shopping mall and hotel are designed like a ship. Staying at the futuristic luxurious Marina Bay Sands Hotel is a once-in-a-lifetime experience, so if you can afford it – go for it! Chinatown

A unique historical area with a mix of Chinese architecture, temples, shops, cafes, and modern highrises in the nearby CBD. A wide range of upscale and mid-range hotels. Bugis & Kampong Glam

Singapore’s hippest area, with lots of cool coffee shops, cafes, restaurants, and pubs. Budget-friendly hotels and hostels. The Quays Area

Singapore’s canal and river area is packed with restaurants, cafes, and bars. It is a fun area to stay in, with some fantastic hotels and nightlife. Little India

A vibrant area with lots of delicious Indian food. Budget-friendly hotels and hostels. Sentosa Island

A kid-friendly area where you find Universal Studios, Singapore Aquarium, and beautiful beaches. Big resort hotels, perfect for families with kids. Thiong Bahru

Residential neighborhood with several cool hipster cafes, coffee shops, bakeries, and restaurants. Lots of ex-pats living here. Budget-friendly hotels and apartments.

Read on to find out where you want to stay when visiting Singapore. We have also listed our favorite hotels in each area below:



The 9 best areas to stay in Singapore: 1. Orchard Road, 2. Colonial/ Historic, 3. Marina Bay, 4. The Quays, 5. Bugis & Kampong Glam, 6. Chinatown, 7. Little India, 8. Sentosa Island, 9. Thiong Bahru

1. Orchard Road

Orchard Road is home to what is arguably the world’s best upscale shopping. Along the wide Orchard Road (2,5 km long), enormous modern shopping malls line both sides of the street. If you can’t find what you are looking for here, chances are you will not find it anywhere in the world.

Why stay in the Orchard Road area?

To sum it up in one word – shopping! You should stay in the Orchard Road area for the shopping! From luxury fashion clothing brands to electronic and camera shops, Orchard is a shopper’s dream destination.

But there is more to Orchard than just shopping. Venture into the smaller side streets, and you will discover plenty of cool bars, restaurants, and a more relaxed atmosphere.

There are cinema multiplexes inside the shopping malls and plenty of restaurants, food courts, and cafes for that shopping break. Food courts are a particularly good value for money.

If you are a book lover like us, do not miss a visit to the branch of Kinokuniya Book Store inside the Ngee Ann City Mall (on level 4). It is the world’s largest bookstore, and we have spent more hours than I care to admit digging for book treasures there.

Just north of Orchard Road, you can escape the city´s hustle and bustle in the green lung Istana Park, where you will also find the President’s Residence.

MRT lines connect the area well, and you are never far from the nearest station, making it easy to get around the rest of the city from here. There are currently four major MRT stations in the Orchard Road area: Orchard, Orchard Boulevard, Somerset, and Dhoby Ghaut MRT stations.

Things to see and do in the Orchard Road area

Shopping, shopping, and some more shopping, as well as eating, are the main things to do in the Orchard Road area. It indeed is a shopping mecca! Orchard Road is one of the best shopping streets in Asia, maybe the best.

ION Orchard Mall

Singapore´s top-notch mega mall. Check out its observation deck, ION Sky, on level 56, with an amazing view over the city.

Singapore´s top-notch mega mall. Check out its observation deck, ION Sky, on level 56, with an amazing view over the city. Emerald Hill Road

Go for a walk and admire these beautiful heritage architectural buildings. Some popular and cozy bars are also in the old renovated shophouses near Orchard Road.

Go for a walk and admire these beautiful heritage architectural buildings. Some popular and cozy bars are also in the old renovated shophouses near Orchard Road. Cathay Gallery

Cathay Gallery is the perfect museum for us film nerds! Here you find cool old movie posters, local Singapore film history, and cameras.

Cathay Gallery is the perfect museum for us film nerds! Here you find cool old movie posters, local Singapore film history, and cameras. Istana Park

A lovely little landscaped park of 13 km² that opened in 1996. Istana Park’s centerpiece is the Festival Arch (26 m tall), surrounded by a reflecting pool. The arch symbolizes the gateway to Orchard Road.

A lovely little landscaped park of 13 km² that opened in 1996. Istana Park’s centerpiece is the Festival Arch (26 m tall), surrounded by a reflecting pool. The arch symbolizes the gateway to Orchard Road. Istana Heritage Gallery

You will also find the Istana Heritage Gallery inside the park (opened in 2017), which showcases the history of Istana’s transition from being the Colonial Governor’s House to its present role as the Official Residence of the President. Here you can see a range of heritage displays with state artifacts, artworks, and a collection of gifts presented by foreign countries to Singapore’s Presidents and Prime Ministers.

You will also find the Istana Heritage Gallery inside the park (opened in 2017), which showcases the history of Istana’s transition from being the Colonial Governor’s House to its present role as the Official Residence of the President. Here you can see a range of heritage displays with state artifacts, artworks, and a collection of gifts presented by foreign countries to Singapore’s Presidents and Prime Ministers. Eat At Food Courts

Check out the many food courts in the Orchard Road area. Almost all the malls have one selling cheap, freshly cooked food from all over the world. Our favorite food courts in Orchard are: Takashimaya Food Village – At B2 in Takashimaya Department Store Food Republic – At level 4 in Wisma Atria Food Opera – At level B4 in ION Orchard Mall

Check out the many food courts in the Orchard Road area. Almost all the malls have one selling cheap, freshly cooked food from all over the world. Our favorite food courts in Orchard are: Singapore Botanic Gardens

You find the world’s only tropical garden that is declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site on the western side of Orchard Road – Singapore Botanic Gardens. It is free and open every day from 05:00 am until midnight. Our favorite part of the garden is the National Orchid Garden (last entry at 18:00/ 6 pm, ticket: 15 SG$).

What’s the catch?

It gets busy, particularly on the weekends and holidays, and while there are plenty of cinemas, the nightlife is a little limited.

The hotel’s prices here are on the higher end. There are not that many hostels and cheap hotels for budget travelers on Orchard Road.

Where to stay in the Orchard Road area

There are plenty of quality hotels from the top international hotel chains in this area.

Top End

Four Seasons Hotel

Currently ranked as #2 of all hotels in Singapore (almost 400) on TripAdvisor, the Four Seasons Hotel Singapore is one of the very best hotels in the city. It has everything a top-notch five-star hotel should have; great service, excellent food (two restaurants and a lobby bar), beautiful rooms, a well-equipped gym, and a stunning and relaxing swimming pool on the 20th rooftop floor. Plus they have an indoor and outdoor tennis court.

It is located right in the middle of everything on Orchard Road. So by staying at the Four Seasons Hotel, you will have a short walking distance of all the shopping, cinemas, cafes, and restaurants in the main shopping area of Singapore. From here, you can easily access taxis/ Grab cars and MRT/ trains, so you can get around the rest of Singapore. By far one of the best and most luxurious hotels in Singapore.

Click for latest prices

Shangri-La Hotel

The luxurious Shangri-La Hotel has a perfect location at the west end of Orchard Road, right in the middle of all the amazing shopping opportunities Singapore offers. With its world-class friendly service, this hotel truly makes you feel like a queen or king.

The hotel has an incredible six hectares of tropical gardens, a swimming pool, a pond with a small waterfall, orchids galore, and plenty of palm trees. There are three different wings to choose from. If you stay in one of the rooms in the bungalow villa-styled oasis Garden Wing, it is like staying at a resort. The Tower Wing has newly renovated rooms, each with a unique theme. The American president chose to stay at Shangri-La during the summit with North Korea’s leader in 2018.

Click for latest prices

Goodwood Park Hotel

This is one of Singapore’s grand old heritage hotels with a lot of history. From the moment we walked into Goodwood Park Hotel, we felt like we were stepping back in time. Although the hotel is newly renovated, they have kept the old and grand vibe and decor.

The hotel dates back to 1900 and was built for the German Gentlemen’s Club. Everything from the lobby to the restaurant and the room design is super elegant and classy! From the lush landscaped garden, marble tiles, and colonial architecture to the wide stairways, the whole hotel oozes old-world colonial charm.

The hotel only has three floors with a mix of modern and heritage rooms. We stayed in Heritage Room no. 4 on the 2nd floor, which was spacious (31 sqm) and designed with warm, elegant colors in a classic style.

We stayed in this beautiful Heritage Room Very comfortable bed

We particularly loved the bathtub and the toiletries by Salvatore Ferragamo. Also, the work desk was great and wide with ergonomic seating, and the internet was fast. On the downside, the bathroom had no separate shower, so we had to stand in the bathtub to shower. We were also a bit unlucky as some teenagers had booked the neighboring room and were throwing a birthday party all night. We can honestly say soundproofing is not the best in this old building.

The Goodwood Park Hotel has the perfect location close to Orchard Road (a 5-min walk). We loved the swimming pool, which is located on the ground floor, set in a green and lush garden with plenty of sunbeds, perfect for relaxation. The hotel also has studio apartments with a kitchen. The hotel’s L’Espresso Cafe serves a popular afternoon tea buffet from 11 until 19, which is well worth checking out even if you are not staying there.

Click for latest prices

Mid Range

JEN Singapore Orchardgateway by Shangri-La

Oh boy, what an infinity swimming pool the JEN Singapore Orchardgateway Hotel has! It must be one of the best in Singapore! It is huge and located on the rooftop with an excellent view of Singapore’s skyline. And it is open until 23:00, so it’s the perfect place to enjoy a drink or a swim under the stars. We ♥ it!

There is a lifeguard on duty by the pool, and there are three pools in total, including a children’s pool.

We had only booked two nights at the JEN Singapore Orchardgateway Hotel, but we liked it so much that we extended our stay. This is one of our top favorite hotels in Singapore.

The location of the JEN Singapore Orchardgateway Hotel is perfect! The hotel is located as part of the Orchard Gateway Mall on Orchard Rd (the reception is on the 10th floor of the mall).

The Orchard Gateway Mall also houses the MRT Somerset Station, which is very convenient for getting around Singapore. You can just take the hotel elevator down, and you are in the middle of all the restaurants and shops that Orchard Gateway Mall, Orchard Central Mall, and 313 Somerset Mall have to offer (they are all connected).

Right behind the hotel is a street called Killiney Rd, lined with cozy and cheap restaurants, everything from delicious Indian, Chinese, Vietnamese, and Malaysian. Great for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.

Our room was big, comfortable and modern, and extremely quiet. We could not hear anything either from our neighbors or the cleaning staff in the morning. Fast and free internet. And the hotel even has a robot (!), the cute Jeno, which delivers room service food, etc. We called reception and asked for some water, and Jeno the robot, came to our rescue. 🙂

Click for latest prices

Quincy Hotel Singapore by Far East Hospitality

This boutique hotel is a smart and well-worth-the-money option close to Orchard Road (just a 7-minute walk away) and located on a quiet street. We booked a Premier Room, which was spacious (32 sqm) and comfortable, with a great city view (our room was on the 14th floor). I loved sitting on the sofa by the window, looking out.

The hotel offers plenty of free perks, which makes this hotel a good deal. We especially enjoyed the free drinks (2 glasses of beer, wine, or mocktails each) and delicious canapes between 18/ 6 pm and 20/ 8 pm every evening.

Free canapes and wine between 18/ 6 pm and 20/ 8 pm every evening Me enjoying the wine and canapes

There is also 24-hour lounge access with complimentary light refreshments like tea, coffee, sodas, snacks, and fruits in the cafe by the reception.

When we checked it, we could choose five items from a minibar list (a selection of drinks and snacks), which we were given for free as our complimentary minibar.

We also got free ice cream sandwiches (instead of welcome drinks)! You could choose between three different flavors. We chose the Mint Chocolate, which was delicious. Even if you choose not to stay at the Quincy Hotel, you should check out The Ice Cream & Cookie Co in Singapore – super good ice cream!



We also highly appreciated the excellent wifi with a speed of 300/220Mbit – super fast! Could stream all the movies and series we wanted.

There is a swimming pool, gym, lounge area, and sauna on the 12th floor. The pool is, however, under the roof (but open-air), so not ideal for sunbathing. But there are a few sunbeds next to the pool. On the plus side, the pool is open 24/7, which is awesome!

Maria's fantastic salmon breakfast Espen's avocado, egg, and bacon sandwich

We found the complimentary breakfast to be very tasty, and we really appreciated that we could order it until 3 pm/ 15:00 in the afternoon! Awesome if you want to sleep in a bit and get over the jetlag. We actually had our breakfast after we had checked out at 12:00, which was so convenient. You can choose from a set menu. I had the avocado toast with smoked salmon and porched eggs – so good!

All in all, Quincy is a great hotel with lots of awesome free perks, great service, and high-class food!

Click for latest prices

Lloyd´s Inn

We liked Lloyd´s a lot and had a great stay here. It is a good value for the money in this central area of Singapore, as it includes breakfast at the famous cafe Killiney Kopitiam or a nearby bakery.

Lloyd’s is an excellent, clean, minimalistic boutique hotel with a real Zen vibe. All 34 rooms have some elements of nature. Our room had an outdoor shower which we loved! Some rooms have big windows and even a terrace out to a green and lush garden. Some rooms even have a bathtub outside! Super cool!

Our room faced the street, so we did not have the best view. I would say it is worth paying extra for a room with a garden view.

The rooms are stylish like they were taken from an Ikea catalog, and have everything you need.

Lloyd’s is located in a quiet residential area. So even if our room faced the street, there was no noise, and we slept well.

Our small but comfortable room. Maria planning our Singapore itinerary in the cozy garden.

You can easily walk from Lloyd’s Hotel to the shopping area on Orchard Road and the river and canal area – the Quays. It is also close to Killiney Road, with cozy and cheap restaurants, everything from delicious Indian, Chinese, Vietnamese, and Malaysian. We had breakfast, lunch, and dinner on this street.

The hotel has a lovely outdoor relaxing area in the garden with sunbeds, a hammock, and cool rotting chairs. There is also a dipping pool in the backyard. The receptionist delivered cookies to our room every afternoon, a nice extra touch. 🙂

Click for latest prices

2. Colonial / Historic District

Why stay in the Colonial/ Historic area?

This is our favorite area to stay in Singapore as it is very central and in the middle of the other areas of Singapore. You can easily walk to the bars and restaurants in the Quay area and Marina Bay and the delicious street food in Bugis & Kampong Glam area or Little India, and get to Orchard Road with all the great shopping.

The area has lots of beautiful architectural masterpieces and is a lovely area to go for a stroll. You can do some running or walk in the great Fort Canning Park. This is the area where you will find most of the museums in Singapore.

So if you love museums and history and want to be within walking distance to the nightlife in Quays and Marina Bay area, as well as quickly get to Orchard Road, Little India, and Bugis / Kampong Glam area, this is where you should stay.

The area has several MRT stations and two lines (from City Hall Station), making it easy to get all over the rest of Singapore.

Things to see and do in the Colonial/ Historic District

Fort Canning Park

Fort Canning Park is beautifully situated on a hill and has a fantastic history. It once was the center of Ancient Singpura (in the 14th century) and housed the palace of the King. This is the place where the Union Flag was hoisted to mark the signing of the Singapore Treaty with Stamford Raffles and the birth of Singapore. Later, in 1823, Raffles built his residence on the hill. He also established Singapore’s first botanical garden on the hillside. Later, in 1861, Fort Canning was built on top of the hill to defend the harbor. The fort was, however, a failure and was demolished in 1907. Today you can see the gateway of the fort and two nine-pound cannons here.

Fort Canning Park is beautifully situated on a hill and has a fantastic history. It once was the center of Ancient Singpura (in the 14th century) and housed the palace of the King. This is the place where the Union Flag was hoisted to mark the signing of the Singapore Treaty with Stamford Raffles and the birth of Singapore. Later, in 1823, Raffles built his residence on the hill. He also established Singapore’s first botanical garden on the hillside. Later, in 1861, Fort Canning was built on top of the hill to defend the harbor. The fort was, however, a failure and was demolished in 1907. Today you can see the gateway of the fort and two nine-pound cannons here. Battle Box at Fort Canning Park

An underground bunker consisting of 30 rooms was then built inside the hill. The decision to surrender Singapore to the Japanese in 1942 was also made here. Today, the bunker (formerly the Underground Far East Command Centre) is known as Battle Box , and you can join a fun guided tour of the whole facility.

An underground bunker consisting of 30 rooms was then built inside the hill. The decision to surrender Singapore to the Japanese in 1942 was also made here. Today, the bunker (formerly the Underground Far East Command Centre) is known as , and you can join a fun guided tour of the whole facility. National Museum of Singapore

The National Museum of Singapore is Singapore’s oldest museum, dating back to 1849 when it was called Raffles Library and Museum. It is housed in a beautiful old colonial-style building, and here you can learn everything about Singapore and its history and culture. They also have special exhibitions and events. We joined a guided tour, and it was great! They run English-guided tours on Monday – Friday at 11:00 am and 14:00 and Saturday – Sunday at 11:00, 14:00, and 15:00.

The National Museum of Singapore is Singapore’s oldest museum, dating back to 1849 when it was called Raffles Library and Museum. It is housed in a beautiful old colonial-style building, and here you can learn everything about Singapore and its history and culture. They also have special exhibitions and events. We joined a guided tour, and it was great! They run English-guided tours on Monday – Friday at 11:00 am and 14:00 and Saturday – Sunday at 11:00, 14:00, and 15:00. National Gallery Singapore

The National Gallery Singapore has the largest collection in the world of South East Asian modern art. But here you also find the biggest collection of Italian Renaissance paintings (outside of Italy) and great paintings by European painters from the 15th to the 19th century, like Turner, Leonardo, Velázquez, Titian, Constable, Botticelli, Monet, Caravaggio, and Vermeer. The top three most popular paintings at the National Gallery Singapore are van Eyck’s Arnolfini Portrait, Holbein’s Ambassadors, and Van Gogh’s Sunflowers. We also loved the photography exhibitions at the gallery. Buy your tickets to National Gallery online here, and skip the ticket line.

The National Gallery Singapore has the largest collection in the world of South East Asian modern art. But here you also find the biggest collection of Italian Renaissance paintings (outside of Italy) and great paintings by European painters from the 15th to the 19th century, like Turner, Leonardo, Velázquez, Titian, Constable, Botticelli, Monet, Caravaggio, and Vermeer. The top three most popular paintings at the National Gallery Singapore are van Eyck’s Arnolfini Portrait, Holbein’s Ambassadors, and Van Gogh’s Sunflowers. We also loved the photography exhibitions at the gallery. Buy your tickets to National Gallery online here, and skip the ticket line. Raffles Hotel

The stunning British-colonial-style luxury hotel Raffles was first built in 1830 as a beach house. It became a hotel in 1878. The Raffles Hotel went through a major two-year renovation and reopened in 2019 with all 115 rooms refurbished and soundproofed, with new technologies installed. The hotel also got a brand-new marble floor. Head to Raffles’s historic Long Bar for its famous drink Singapore Sling.

The stunning British-colonial-style luxury hotel Raffles was first built in 1830 as a beach house. It became a hotel in 1878. The Raffles Hotel went through a major two-year renovation and reopened in 2019 with all 115 rooms refurbished and soundproofed, with new technologies installed. The hotel also got a brand-new marble floor. Head to Raffles’s historic Long Bar for its famous drink Singapore Sling. St Andrew’s Cathedral

The beautiful white Neo-Gothic architectural style of St Andrew´s Cathedral was first built in 1836. It was struck and destroyed by lightning twice (!!) in 1852. Today’s church building was constructed in 1856–1861. The church was used as an emergency hospital during World War II, after the fall of Singapore, to the Japanese in 1942. Saint Andrew’s Cathedral was declared a Singaporean National Monument in 1973 and is well worth a visit.

What’s the catch?

It is not an area with much action; it is quiet, especially in the evening after 22:00. The accommodations are quite expensive here, and you will not find many budgets or hostel options in this area.

Top End

Hotel Fort Canning

This stunning luxury hotel used to be a British military headquarters, and the building (from 1910) is beautiful! Located on a hill, the green and lush Fort Canning Park surrounds the hotel. You can just step out the hotel door to go for a walk, run, or just lie down in the park to relax.

The two huge outdoor swimming pools are lovely, although we unfortunately only got a few hours by the pool as it started raining. They also have a great spa. The best part about the room (which is stunning, too) is the big bathtub which we loved! We particularly enjoyed the free flow of wine and canapes in the relaxing area by the lobby each afternoon (18 – 19). 🙂

Our awesome room at Hotel Fort Canning Maria loved the free wine hour every afternoon

There is a little bit of walking to get to the MRT station Dhoby Ghaut and the restaurants and shops, but not far, only about a 5-10 min walk.

Click for latest prices

Raffles Hotel

Singapore’s most famous hotel, the iconic Raffles Hotel, is finally open again after having been closed for a complete renovation. The beautiful white colonial-era building and the lush green garden have been beautifully restored, and the Raffles Hotel appears again in all its glory.

This is an old-world luxury as you can get, and no other hotel in Singapore can match its historical nostalgia. Here is the bar that created the world-famous Singapore Sling drink and where legends such as Ernest Hemingway, Charlie Chaplin, and Michael Jackson have stayed.

Click for latest prices

Swissotel The Stamford

The 5-star Swissotel The Stamford has a perfect location right in the heart of central Singapore. It is located just next to the Raffles City Market (connected at level 3 of the hotel) with many eateries. The MRT is just a few steps from the hotel (in the same building). We took the MRT from the airport and paid only S$4 for both of us, which took half an hour. Great deal!

The SKAI restaurant and bar on the 70th floor have a fantastic 360-degree view of Singapore. The breakfast and lunch buffet at Cafe Swiss is excellent.

Although the hotel is in the middle of everything in a busy area, the rooms are very quiet. The free Nespresso and TWG tea in the room is a nice bonus, and most of the rooms have balconies. Ask to get one of the newly refurbished rooms. The circular swimming pool is fantastic too, as well as the well-equipped fitness center and 6 (!) tennis courts.

Click for latest prices

Mid Range

Citadines Connect City Centre Hotel

The 4-star Citadines Connect Hotel is like a breath of fresh air centrally located in the historic district of Singapore. When it opened its doors in July 2022 with 172 rooms, we immediately knew we had to check it out on our next Singapore trip.

The rooms are quite small, ranging from 16 to 26 sqm. We booked a Deluxe Queen Room (18 sqm) and got one on the 4th floor. They have some really cute Loft rooms as well, and I regretted a bit that we did not opt for a Loft instead. But our room was fresh, new, and stylish, compact with a smart layout and had a kind of cool 60’s vibe to it.

The complimentary minibar with free chips, soda, water, and juice was a nice surprise. The bed was very comfortable, and our room also had a big brand new TV, a sofa and table, an ironing board, as well as slippers, although no robes.

Our room had everything we needed Our Deluxe Queen room on the 4th floor

Unfortunately, we checked into the hotel pretty late in the evening, as we arrived by bus from Melaka in Malaysia. We immediately headed up to the rooftop swimming pool where the hotel’s restaurant was located – the Edition Rooftop Bar & Restaurant (open 07:00 – 02 at night). It is such a cozy little restaurant and bar, where Espen had a delicious hamburger, and I had a tasty pasta bolognese and some wine.

The next day, we got to try out the rooftop swimming pool, which is open from 07 until 21. It’s a nice place to hang out and relax, with sunbeds and seating groups. There is a small gym next to the pool, where some of the gym equipment (like the rowing machine) is in the pool, which they call Aqua Gym! The first time we have seen that in a hotel.

We did not try out the cozy cafe Natsu downstairs by the reception (serving a fusion of European and Japanese food, open 08:30 – 17:30) as we walked over to the Tiong Bahru Bakery in the neighboring Fort Canning Park to grab some lunch.

The hotel is conveniently located next to Fort Canning Park, with Dhoby Ghaut MRT Station just across the road (a 3-min walk, exit B). National Museum is just a 10-min walk from the hotel, and you can easily walk to the shopping malls on Orchard Road in 10-min or so.

This is a great hotel to stay at if you want to do our recommended Singapore itinerary. The starting point of Day 1 of the itinerary (Singapore breakfast at Killiney Kopitiam) is just a 9-min walk from Citadines Connect City Centre Hotel. This is one of the cheapest hotels in this central area of Singapore and is such a great value.

Click here for the latest prices

Rendezvous Hotel Singapore by Far East Hospitality

With an excellent location just opposite the road from the Bencoolen MRT Station and on a side street from the National Museum of Singapore, the Rendezvous Hotel was a positive surprise for us. Although the Rendezvous Hotel is not the newest in town, it was completely refurbished in 2018. We think it offers good value in a central and otherwise expensive location.

We stayed here for three nights and found the hotel very conveniently located, within walking distance of the shopping on Orchard Road.

Our favorite was the hotel’s swimming pool, set in a lovely little garden on the 3rd floor. Loved chilling out here after the shopping in Orchard Road. There is also a gym on the same floor.

We stayed in a Superior Double Room, which was spacious (26 sqm) and clean. The interior design of our room was not the most modern, but it had its cozy charm, and we had a modern Samsung TV.

There are some restaurants and cafes, a 7-Eleven, in the basement of the hotel, and a Foodrepublic food court with lots of excellent and cheap food just opposite the road. We had lunch there several times, and the food was delicious. It is easy to get to and from the Rendezvous Hotel to Changi Airport by bus no. 36, which stops right outside the hotel.

Click for the latest prices

3. Marina Bay

If you continue further east along the river from the Quay area, you will get to the booming, modern, and futuristic Marina Bay.

It is home to some of Singapore’s biggest landmarks and attractions like Marina Bay Sands (the big skyscraper shaped like a gigantic ship), the Merlion Statue (a mythical creature created by the tourism board of Singapore in the 1980s, a half fish, half lion), Gardens by the Bay (a breathtaking futuristic botanic garden with Supertrees like taken out of the movie Avatar), and Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay (an architectural masterpiece with theater performances and concerts).

If you don´t plan to stay in this area, visiting here is a must! Make sure to be at Gardens by the Bay at 19:45 or 20:45 when the Supertrees glow and perform a spectacular light and music show. Also, the 15 min light and music show in front of the Marina Bay Sands is amazing and well worth seeing. It is played every evening at 20:00 and 21:00 and also at 22:00 on Fridays and Saturdays.

Why stay in the Marina Bay area?

The hotels in this area have a great view of the bay and the city. You will find some of Singapore’s biggest and most luxurious hotels in Marina Bay. It is a beautiful area overlooking the harbor. This area is quite central, and you can easily walk to many of the top attractions Singapore has to offer.

Things to see and do in Marina Bay

Gardens By The Bay

The ultra cool “Avatar Trees” park and futuristic botanic gardens are our favorite thing to do in Singapore. It is a must-visit! The garden consists of two domes: Flower Dome (the world’s largest greenhouse) and Cloud Forest (with the world’s largest indoor waterfall at 35 meters tall). The Supertree Observatory (where you get to go up into the artificial trees) is also fantastic! Read all about why we love Gardens By The Bay so much here.

Buy your tickets online here, and skip the ticket line.

The ultra cool “Avatar Trees” park and futuristic botanic gardens are our favorite thing to do in Singapore. It is a must-visit! The garden consists of two domes: Flower Dome (the world’s largest greenhouse) and Cloud Forest (with the world’s largest indoor waterfall at 35 meters tall). The Supertree Observatory (where you get to go up into the artificial trees) is also fantastic! Read all about why we love Gardens By The Bay so much here. Buy your tickets online here, and skip the ticket line. Marina Bay Sands

This “ship”-designed Marina Bay Sands hotel and gigantic shopping mall is the icon of Singapore, and you cannot avoid noticing this out-of-the-world futuristic building right by the harbor.

Check out the Marina Bay Sands Observation Deck (on the 57th floor) with the most awesome infinity pool (the pool can unfortunately only be used by guests staying at the hotel) and view of the city. Buy tickets online here, and avoid the ticket line.

This “ship”-designed Marina Bay Sands hotel and gigantic shopping mall is the icon of Singapore, and you cannot avoid noticing this out-of-the-world futuristic building right by the harbor. Check out the Marina Bay Sands Observation Deck (on the 57th floor) with the most awesome infinity pool (the pool can unfortunately only be used by guests staying at the hotel) and view of the city. Buy tickets online here, and avoid the ticket line. The Merlion Statue

As you go for a stroll around the harbor area of Marina Bay, you will notice this white statue spitting water. The Merlion Statue is a mythical creature created by the tourism board of Singapore in the 1980s. It is white, half fish and half lion, and has become the symbol of Singapore. Taking a selfie with The Merlion is a must-do.

As you go for a stroll around the harbor area of Marina Bay, you will notice this white statue spitting water. The Merlion Statue is a mythical creature created by the tourism board of Singapore in the 1980s. It is white, half fish and half lion, and has become the symbol of Singapore. Taking a selfie with The Merlion is a must-do. Helix Bridge

The Helix Bridge (or just The Helix) is a pedestrian bridge linking Marina Centre with Marina South. You have a great view of the Singapore skyline on the bridge.

The Helix Bridge (or just The Helix) is a pedestrian bridge linking Marina Centre with Marina South. You have a great view of the Singapore skyline on the bridge. ArtScience Museum

The ArtScience Museum looks like a giant white lotus from the outside. Inside, however, this cool museum connects art, media, design, technology, and science. They had a Marvel Studios exhibition when we visited, which was awesome.

The ArtScience Museum looks like a giant white lotus from the outside. Inside, however, this cool museum connects art, media, design, technology, and science. They had a Marvel Studios exhibition when we visited, which was awesome. Esplanade

Singapore’s main theater and concert hall, the Esplanade runs theaters, music shows, concerts, and workshops every day.

What’s the catch?

Marina Bay is a costly area; everything from hotels and food to activities is on the upper end of the money scale. There are no budget or even mid-range accommodation options here.

Top End

Marina Bay Sands

With its iconic shape of a ship and the fact that you can see it from all over Singapore, Marina Bay Sands must be Singapore’s most easily recognizable hotel. It has everything that one would expect from 5-star accommodation.



The rooms are great and spacious and spotless, but the infinity pool is the real star of this hotel. The view from this pool on the 54th floor is AMAZING!

There is so much to do at this hotel that you don´t necessarily have to leave it at all. It has a huge mall with a casino, a water ride (yep, the mall has an indoor canal with boats), several restaurants, a club, a bar, and everything you need basically! Staying at the Marina Bay Sands is a once-in-a-lifetime experience you will never forget. If you can afford it, go for it!

Click for latest prices

Parkroyal Collection Marina Bay

The hotel’s interior is super stylish and like taken out of a magazine! Very Instagram-friendly. Next to the reception on the 4th floor, you will find a cafe, bar, and restaurant. This area is popular for photographers, and several wedding couples were on photoshoots here when we stayed there. I love the design of this hotel, from the big airy reception area with lots of greens, to the birds singing, making the whole hotel into a greenish jungle-kind of experience.

The building housing Parkroyal Collection Marina Bay used to be Marina Mandarin Hotel. It underwent a complete renovation and transformation before it reopened in December 2020 as Parkroyal.

We booked a Signature Marina Bay room and got one on the 13th floor with A-M-A-Z-I-N-G views of Singapore Harbor, the iconic Marina Bay Sands, and the Gardens by the Bay! We even had a small balcony, perfect for taking photos of the water and light show Spectra (every evening at 20:00 and 21:00, Fridays and Saturdays also at 22:00).

Me standing on our room balcony Photo taken from our balcony

Our room was big (32 sqm) and super comfy (the beds were heavenly good, and the blinds completely darkened the room). The bathroom was very spacious with both a bathtub, a separate shower, and bide. There was a separate tap in the bathroom with filtered drinking water.

The TV was gigantic, and the room had a workspace/ desk, plus an electric water kettle and a Nespresso capsule coffee machine. The room service menu had a great selection of food and drinks, which we ordered through the convenient personal digital assistant.

There is also a big swimming pool, a well-equipped gym (even a spinning room) where you can book a personal trainer and a spa on the 5th floor. The pool is like a large open terrace with a cozy bar/ cafe (the Skyline Bar) and many sun beds, sitting groups, and lounge beds.

The hotel has a great location, close to both Marina Bay and the Historic district of Singapore. National Gallery is, for instance, only a 10-min walk from the hotel. One of our favorite food courts, the Makansutra Gluttons Bay food night market, is just opposite the road.

Click here for the latest prices

The Fullerton Bay Hotel

The Fullerton Bay Hotel, currently ranked as no. 1 of all Singapore hotels by travelers on Tripadvisor, offers pure luxury with a great riverfront location. The pool is terrific, and the staff is friendly and professional and always on hand with cool and wet face towels, iced water, lychee lollies, and chilled fruit.



Apart from the high price, this is close to the perfect hotel. Everything from the lovely rainfall shower in the bathroom to the bathrobes (I love hotel bathrobes!), which are the softest and fluffiest I have ever tried!

The breakfast is superb (try the pancakes!). A visit to the rooftop Lantern bar for a glass of champagne and a view of the Marina is a must!

Click for latest prices

Hotel Telegraph

This 5-star luxury boutique hotel is located in a beautifully restored old heritage building from 1927. Singapore’s oldest architectural firm designed it, and it used to house Singapore’s telecommunication company, therefore the hotel name.

It was fully refurbished and turned into this lovely hotel in 2022. With its 134 rooms, Hotel Telegraph is a member of the prestigious Small Luxury Hotels of the World.

We booked the smallest and cheapest room – Cosy Room (24 sqm) and loved the room design where they have managed to keep the historical “look” yet in a fresh and modern comfort. The ceiling was particularly cool, and I loved the wooden floor. A welcome touch is complimentary juice, water, and snacks in the minibar.

The rooftop swimming pool was one of our favorite parts of the hotel. Very relaxing pool area with a good vibe, and a cool bar.

Location is key to this hotel, as it is practically within walking distance of Chinatown, the Central Business District (CBD), as well as Marina Bay, and the Quays. And only a 5-min walk to the Metro station.

The famous Victorian-covered hawker center Lau Pa Sat (open until 3 am at night) and the great Satay Street are just across the road from the hotel. The concierge was fabulous and made us feel right at home.

Click for the latest prices

4. Chinatown & Central Business District (CBD)

Chinatown lies in the shadow of the ever-expanding Central Business District (CBD) with its tall skyscrapers packed with offices. The houses in Chinatown are much lower, more like three to four stories tall, and many have been beautifully preserved.

Although Chinatown has some nice and beautiful temples, it lacks the big attractions and sights, but the delicious food found in this part of the city is a big enough reason to both stay and at least visit this area of Singapore. You can find everything from cheap hawker food to top-notch fancy restaurants serving food from all over the world. Head to Ann Siang Rd and Club Street in the evening for a splendid meal and a drink or two at one of the many lovely rooftop bars.

Why stay in the Chinatown area?

If you stay in Chinatown, you are in the middle of the action with great eateries, pubs, bars, and nightlife. Lots of things to see by wandering the streets, like several beautiful temples.

Chinatown is the most authentic and atmospheric area with old Chinese medicine shops and hawker food places.

There are many different accommodation options, from high-priced top-end boutique hotels to budget hostels.

Chinatown is the perfect area to stay in for backpackers seeking cheap accommodation, business travelers working in the nearby Central Business District (CBD), and those who want to see the cultural sights and the roots of Singapore.

Several MRT stations (Chinatown Station, Telok Ayer Station, Outram Park Station, Tanjong Pagar Station, and Raffles Place Station) make this area a great place to stay when it comes to getting around the city quickly.

Things to see and do in Chinatown

Chinatown Street Market

The Chinatown street market is set along Pagoda Street, Trengganu Street, Sago Lane, Smith Street, and Temple Street. It is mostly a day market, and most stalls close around 20/ 8 pm. Here you can find souvenirs, clothes, and some handicrafts.

The Chinatown street market is set along Pagoda Street, Trengganu Street, Sago Lane, Smith Street, and Temple Street. It is mostly a day market, and most stalls close around 20/ 8 pm. Here you can find souvenirs, clothes, and some handicrafts. Chinatown Heritage Centre

The Chinatown Heritage Centre is a lovely museum that explains the history and culture of Chinatown with lots of old photos and personal stories of the families that used to live and now live in this area.

The Chinatown Heritage Centre is a lovely museum that explains the history and culture of Chinatown with lots of old photos and personal stories of the families that used to live and now live in this area. Buddha Tooth Relic Temple

The Buddha Tooth Relic Temple was completed in 2007 and houses what claims to be the tooth relic of Buddha. The tooth is 7,5 cm long, so way too long for any human. You can view the tooth on the 4th floor of the temple. The temple is huge, consisting of four stories, where you will find a theatre and a dining hall in the basement (serving vegetarian meals only, which is free, but a donation is welcomed).

The Buddha Tooth Relic Temple was completed in 2007 and houses what claims to be the tooth relic of Buddha. The tooth is 7,5 cm long, so way too long for any human. You can view the tooth on the 4th floor of the temple. The temple is huge, consisting of four stories, where you will find a theatre and a dining hall in the basement (serving vegetarian meals only, which is free, but a donation is welcomed). Thian Hock Keng Temple & Mural Street Art

Thian Hock Keng Taoist Temple is Singapore’s oldest Chinese temple, built in 1839. The temple is stunning and is a grand example of traditional Southern-Chinese architecture style. We love all the small details of the temples, the beautiful carvings and statues of dragons, deities, phoenixes, and other creatures. The temple is declared a Singaporean National Monument.

Also, you cannot avoid noticing the fantastic 44 m-long wall painting on the outside rear wall of the Thian Hock Keng Temple. It is made by the Singaporean artist Yip Yew Chong. The mural tells the story of Singapore’s early Hokkien immigrants.

Thian Hock Keng Taoist Temple is Singapore’s oldest Chinese temple, built in 1839. The temple is stunning and is a grand example of traditional Southern-Chinese architecture style. We love all the small details of the temples, the beautiful carvings and statues of dragons, deities, phoenixes, and other creatures. The temple is declared a Singaporean National Monument. Also, you cannot avoid noticing the fantastic 44 m-long wall painting on the outside rear wall of the Thian Hock Keng Temple. It is made by the Singaporean artist Yip Yew Chong. The mural tells the story of Singapore’s early Hokkien immigrants. Sri Mariamman Hindu Temple

The Sri Mariamman Hindu Temple was founded in 1827 by the government clerk Naraina Pillai from Penang. He first arrived in Singapore with Sir Stamford Raffles (the founder of Singapore) and started Singapore’s first construction company and textile trading. He quickly became the leader of Singapore’s Indian community. The temple is so colorful and full of details. It is declared a Singaporean National Monument.

The Sri Mariamman Hindu Temple was founded in 1827 by the government clerk Naraina Pillai from Penang. He first arrived in Singapore with Sir Stamford Raffles (the founder of Singapore) and started Singapore’s first construction company and textile trading. He quickly became the leader of Singapore’s Indian community. The temple is so colorful and full of details. It is declared a Singaporean National Monument. Singapore City Gallery

At Singapore City Gallery you can learn about Singapore’s impressive urban development over the last 50 years and the philosophy behind creating this modern and futuristic city. The gallery also shows future plans for Singapore. We love how they have managed to make the exhibitions interactive and fun. It was also fun getting an overview of the entire city center of Singapore on the scale replica (you find it on the second floor).

At Singapore City Gallery you can learn about Singapore’s impressive urban development over the last 50 years and the philosophy behind creating this modern and futuristic city. The gallery also shows future plans for Singapore. We love how they have managed to make the exhibitions interactive and fun. It was also fun getting an overview of the entire city center of Singapore on the scale replica (you find it on the second floor). Ann Siang Rd and Club Street

The two streets, Ann Siang Road and Club Street are the perfect place to head for dinner and a drink at a rooftop bar. The streets are lined with beautifully restored old Chinese shophouses, which now house restaurants, cafes, shops, fitness studios, and bars. Here you will find some of the best restaurants and bars in Singapore. For the best pizza in town, check out our favorite Ristorante Luka nearby!

What’s the catch?

It can be a crowded and noisy area, especially in the evenings and weekends when many tourists head to Chinatown for the nightlife.

Top End

The Clan Hotel

The 5-star The Clan Hotel is one of the hottest hotels in Singapore (opened in 2020). From the minute we walked into the hotel entrance and were greeted by the concierge, we knew we loved this hotel. The service and stunning and delicate interior made us feel like we were in Japan. After check-in, we were given a tea ceremony as a welcome drink by a real tea master; so cool!

The complimentary tea ceremony on check-in was a cool surprise! The beautiful lobby at The Clan

We stayed in a corner room on the 12th floor (room 1206) that was stunning and huge. Loved the big floor-to-ceiling windows from where we had a fantastic view of Chinatown and the Business District.

Loved the gigantic Samsung smart-tv and the free snacks in the minibar (chips, fudge, exclusive Chinese tea beautifully wrapped in a small box, and The Clan Beer!). The room was well-equipped with ironing boards, umbrellas, bathrobes, slippers, a tea maker, and a Nespresso coffee machine.

Our bathroom was also huge, with a Japanese toilet (with eating, bidet, air, and everything). The bathroom has a filtered water tap for drinking water; so convenient.

The rooftop infinity pool, Sky Pool, on the 30th floor was amazing and was, to our surprise, open until midnight! Also, the gym – Sky Gym on the same floor, was huge and extremely well-equipped.

The breakfast in the restaurant on the 4th floor was great too, not buffet, but we could order from a set menu. We went with the “Chef Daily Special,” which on this day was beef in pita bread with a salad and potatoes; delicious! The hotel arranges different workshops too, and free guided tours of Chinatown. Highly recommend this hotel! One of our absolute favorite Singapore hotels; we will certainly be back!

Click for the latest prices

Parkroyal On Pickering

The fresh and earthy architecture of the Parkroyal On Pickering Hotel blew us away. A green hanging garden covers the whole building facade. The walkway to our room was open-air and full of greenery, so cool! Even though it is a big 5-star hotel, it has an impressive focus on being Eco-friendly. We loved the complimentary water in glass bottles (refilled daily), saving nature from even more plastic bottles.

We found the infinity swimming pool amazing, with a fantastic view of Singapore and the beautiful hanging gardens at the hotel. There is also an excellent gym by the pool. We loved the hotel’s 275 m garden rooftop walk, too; it felt like we were in a park and not in the middle of Singapore.

We loved the infinity pool at Parkroyal On Pickering Hotel The whole hotel building is covered by a green hanging garden

We booked a Lifestyle Premier King Room, which was spacious (32 sqm) with a sofa, a table and chair, and a fantastically huge bathtub. We had an amazing view of Singapore City. I loved lying in the bathtub overlooking the Singapore Skyline.

Loved the huge bathtub Our beautiful and huge room at Parkroyal on Pickering

The wifi is stable and fast. Their restaurant Lime serves excellent Asian and Western food, and the breakfast was the best we had in Singapore; it contains just everything you can imagine. We found the Parkroyal On Pickering Hotel to have a very convenient location. It is located right beside the MRT Chinatown Station. A mall is next door with several excellent restaurants, bakeries, cafes, a big supermarket, and shops. I can’t wait to revisit this hotel!

Click for latest prices

Mid Range

AMOY by Far East Hospitality

If you are looking for a unique boutique hotel full of charm that is a little different from ordinary hotels, then AMOY is it! When stepping through its entrance, which is through the Fuk Tak Chi Chinese temple from 1824, you really feel like stepping back in time.

The old temple is restored into a small museum where you can see model ships of old Chinese trading ships and models of how the streets surrounding the hotel looked like in 1800. So cool!

The renovated and modern Amoy hotel only has 37 rooms. All rooms have a unique layout and design inspired by old China and the Zhangzhou people who came from China to settle in Singapore. We loved the custom-made beds, furniture, and room decor.

We stayed in a Deluxe Room (22 sqm), which faced the courtyard, so there was no car noise. Such a cozy room, and we loved the tall old-style windows. Other highlights were the rainfall shower (Espen’s favorite!), several Western TV stations, a capsule coffee machine, and fast wifi. We particularly loved the FREE minibar! Yay! 🙂

We had breakfast included in our hotel booking and got a delicious breakfast at the neighboring Dean and DeLuca Cafe. We got to choose from a set breakfast menu, which was then freshly made for us, so not a buffet.

We found the Amoy Hotel to have a convenient location right in the heart of Chinatown and the Central Business District of Singapore. There are many bars and restaurants close to the hotel. The Telok Ayer MRT Station (the blue Downtown Line) is located across the road from the hotel, and the Chinatown MRT Station (the blue Downtown Line and the pink North East Line) is only a few blocks away, making getting around the city and to all the attractions a breeze. You can easily walk to the river, Marina Bay, and the Quays.

Click for latest prices

Capri by Fraser China Square

Capri by Fraser is one of our absolute favorite hotels in Kuala Lumpur. So when Capri by Fraser opened in Chinatown in Singapore in 2019, we knew we had to try it out. And it did not disappoint!

We stayed in a Deluxe Double Room (26 sqm) on the 11th floor, which was fresh and airy, with a small kitchenette (with a microwave, a fridge, tea kettle, and espresso machine). Loved the huge TV with a soundbar. The bathroom sink was integrated into the room with a separate shower room and toilet room, which was fine by us.

There is a rooftop infinity swimming pool (on the 16th floor) and a well-equipped gym (open 24 hours). The pool is open until 22, which is great as we love evening swims.

The hotel has no room service, but since all rooms have a kitchenette with utensils, bringing takeaway food to our room was no problem. The kitchen has filtered drinking water. Our room was very quiet, but we heard others with connecting rooms (door to the neighboring room) complain about the noise. The hotel has a great location, close to many restaurants and cafes.

Click here for the latest prices

Budget

Atelier

Walking into the Atelier Hotel feels like walking into someone’s home! That’s how cozy and homey it is. Here you sleep in capsule bunk beds (mixed, female-only, or men-only). The shared bathrooms are clean and have free shampoo and shower wash. The hotel has a small and lovely cafe downstairs serving breakfast, or you can use the shared kitchen. The hotel is beautifully decorated and has super friendly and welcoming staff.

Click here for the latest prices

5. Bugis & Kampong Glam

Bugis and Kampong Glam, also referred to as Arab Street, is a mix of Islamic and hipster chic cafes and restaurants. It is the place to head to for third-wave cafes, cool boutiques, hip and trendy cafes and restaurants, and cool street arts.

The streets of Kampong Glam, especially Haji Lane, really come alive in the evenings with live music gigs and a bustling nightlife.

Bugis & Kampong Glam has lots of excellent restaurants, both Malaysian, Italian, Mexican, Vietnamese, and Chinese, at all price ranges. So plenty to choose from, and Little India is just a short walk away.

Just north of Kampong Glam is the hip and cool street Jalan Besar, where old architecture meets new hip and cool hipster Singapore. This is an up-and-coming area part of the Lavender District. Head here for nice artisan cafes and coffee houses.

Why stay in the Bugis & Kampong Glam area?

This area has some of Singapore’s most beautiful boutique hotels, with a perfect mix of budget, mid-range, and top-notch luxury hotels.

If you want to save money and sleep and eat cheap, you should stay in Bugis & Kampong Glam area, or if you enjoy nice, smart cafes and cool small shops. 🙂

The area has MRT Bugis Station and one of Singapore’s biggest bus terminals, the Queen Street Bus Terminal.



Things to see and do in Bugis & Kampong Glam

Sultan Mosque

Singapore’s largest mosque is beautifully illuminated after dark. Go for a stroll in the nice pedestrian street lined with palm trees leading up to the mosque. This street is lined with cozy restaurants and cafes.

Singapore’s largest mosque is beautifully illuminated after dark. Go for a stroll in the nice pedestrian street lined with palm trees leading up to the mosque. This street is lined with cozy restaurants and cafes. Malay Heritage Centre Museum

The Bugis & Kampong Glam area of Singapore was the seat of the royal family of Malaysia back when Singapore was a part of Malaysia. The beautiful palace was built for the last sultan of Singapore and is now a museum – Malay Heritage Centre Museum.

The Bugis & Kampong Glam area of Singapore was the seat of the royal family of Malaysia back when Singapore was a part of Malaysia. The beautiful palace was built for the last sultan of Singapore and is now a museum – Malay Heritage Centre Museum. Kwan Im Thong Hood Cho Temple

This is a traditional Chinese Buddhist temple founded in 1884.

This is a traditional Chinese Buddhist temple founded in 1884. Bugis Street Market

A popular place to go shopping for both locals and tourists. Here you can find cheap souvenirs, clothes, accessories, electronics, houseware, and cosmetics. You can also find different types of food and drinks here. And best of all, the market is covered by a roof, so you can head here to escape the heat and rain. The market is open until late in the evening (around 22).

A popular place to go shopping for both locals and tourists. Here you can find cheap souvenirs, clothes, accessories, electronics, houseware, and cosmetics. You can also find different types of food and drinks here. And best of all, the market is covered by a roof, so you can head here to escape the heat and rain. The market is open until late in the evening (around 22). Haji Lane

A tiny lane decorated with street murals and packed with cool small shops, restaurants, and cafes. One of our favorite streets in Bugis. And it is pedestrians only.

A tiny lane decorated with street murals and packed with cool small shops, restaurants, and cafes. One of our favorite streets in Bugis. And it is pedestrians only. Projector Cinema

The Projector Cinema is one of Singapore’s few independent cinemas left. Showing both international and Asian movies. It has a cool bar too, where you can buy food and snacks. We saw a super cute Asian animation movie here.

What’s the catch?

A little bit far away from the city center (25 min by MRT to Orchard), and since it is popular in the evening, it can be a struggle to get a taxi. But the area has several MRT stations.

Top End

InterContinental Singapore

We were very impressed by the service, decor, restaurants, and, most importantly, the room at this hotel. The design and decor take you back in time but with a modern and elegant feel. Loved it! Our room was spacious and newly refurbished.

We loved the delicious Chinese food at the Man Fu Yuan in-house restaurant. The city view from the rooftop garden and pool is spectacular, and we used the well-equipped 24-hour gym several times. The pool area is a lovely retreat from the hustle and bustle of the streets, and there is a poolside service so you can have a tasty lunch and a cocktail.

Another highlight of the InterContinental is the lounge – it’s amazing! Breakfast, afternoon tea, and cocktail hour are great. Booking a club room gives you free access to the exclusive club lounge and free cocktails and canapés each evening.

Click here for the latest prices

Hotel Naumi

From the moment we walked through the front door of this beautiful small boutique hotel, we knew we would love our stay here. The hotel is filled with designer furniture and art from big international names making the hotel super chic.

We especially liked the infinity pool on the rooftop, with fantastic city views and a lovely little pool bar – the Cloud 9. The hotel has an excellent Indian restaurant, Table by Rang Mahal, on the ground floor by the lobby.

We stayed in a Habitat Room (26 sqm), which was very modern and with a fresh and chic design. They also have rooms with a little garden, the Patio rooms, which look gorgeous. We highly appreciated the free minibar and Nespresso coffee machine in our room. Our minibar was filled daily with juices, sodas, and water.

Do notice, however, that although the toilet and shower (rainwater shower) are in two separate rooms, the sink and mirror are a part of the bedroom. So the bathroom and bedroom are one open room. The glass walls and doors surrounding the toilet and shower rooms change from transparent to opaque at the touch of a button for privacy.

We found the Naumi Hotel to have a great location, close to shops, museums, MRT stations, and the Marina Bay area. The neighboring street, Purvis Street, has many nice restaurants at all price levels. We ate there many times and loved it!

Click for the latest prices

Andaz Singapore – A concept by Hyatt

We only stayed one night at this modern 5-star hotel and had a great stay! Our room, a King Room, was enormous (38 sqm) and beautifully decorated with impressive city views. Loved lying in bed looking at the view from the huge roof-to-ceiling windows. Our room also had a couch/ day bed by the window. The hotel is designed by the award-winning André Fu from Hong Kong.

Another highly appreciated perk was the complimentary mini-bar with snacks and soft drinks (no alcohol, however). Espen particularly loved the rain shower in the bathroom.

The rooftop infinity pool on the 25th floor is fantastic, with breathtaking views. We could see all the way to the sea! There are plenty of comfortable sunbeds by the pool, too, so it is a great place to relax. I even got to work on my tan. 🙂

The hotel has a rooftop bar – Mr. Stork, and a restaurant – Alley on 25, both on the top floor. We found the Andaz Hotel to be conveniently located, only 230 m from the Bugis MRT Station, making it super easy to get around the city.

Click for latest prices

Mid Range

Hotel G

This modern, fresh, and trendy hotel has a perfect location in the middle of Bugis, with Bencoolen MRT station right around the corner. From Hotel G, you can easily walk to the museum area, the shopping on Orchard Road, and Little India.

The cheapest rooms (Double Room) are a bit small, so we upgraded to Great Room King, a slightly bigger room to fit all our luggage, and our room size was ok for the two of us (13 sqm). The hotel is modern, chic, and cool interior-wise and is excellent value for the money.

It has two restaurants on the ground floor, and if you are coming to the hotel by the MRT or bus, you must walk through one of the restaurants, the Ginett Restaurant & Wine Bar, to get to the elevator and take it up to level 2 to get to the lobby.

If you come by taxi as we did, the taxi drives through the parking center to level 2. We loved the 25 Degrees Burger & Liquor Bar and ate there three times! 🙂 You HAVE to try their burgers!

The only drawback to this hotel, in our opinion, is that it does not have a swimming pool (there is a gym). Other than that, we loved it!

Click for latest prices

Budget

The Pod – Boutique Capsule Hostel

This modern hostel has dorm rooms that sleep around 11 people. It is clean, and you get a screen that you can roll down for privacy. You can choose between male/female-only rooms or a mix. There are shared bathrooms with excellent showers with good hot water pressure. The free coffee machine, laundry service, and breakfast is a plus, as well as the free wifi.

Click for latest prices

6. The Quays – Clarke Quay, Robertson Quay & Boat Quay

Connected by the Singapore River and occupying roughly the area in-between the old Colonial District and the Central Business District are the three Quays of Singapore:

Clark Quay Robertson Quay Boat Quay

Once the heart of commercial trade along the river and an important trading station for ships coming into the harbor, the Quays gradually lost its importance, and by the late 80s, the area consisted of old abandoned warehouses.

Today, the area has transformed into an entertainment center with many bars, tourist shops, microbreweries, restaurants, and nightclubs lining the river on both sides, as well as the smaller side streets.

Why Stay In The Quays Area?

The Quays is the nightlife center of Singapore. So if you want to stay in an area with plenty of options for dining and late-night partying, this is an excellent choice. Another tip is to explore the side streets to find the best restaurants.

Marina Bay and Chinatown are both within walking distance of the Quays. With the Clarke Quay and Fort Canning Park MRT stations nearby, it is also easy to reach other parts of Singapore.

Things to see and do in The Quays area

Boat Quay

This is the closest area to the old harbor and is declared a conservation area by the government of Singapore. It is packed with upscale bars (a bit touristy), shops, and waterside restaurants.

This is the closest area to the old harbor and is declared a conservation area by the government of Singapore. It is packed with upscale bars (a bit touristy), shops, and waterside restaurants. Clarke Quay

The second colonial governor in Singapore was named Clarke and gave this area of the harbor its name. Being the most popular area on the Quay, it has lots of nice bars, clubs, and restaurants.

The second colonial governor in Singapore was named Clarke and gave this area of the harbor its name. Being the most popular area on the Quay, it has lots of nice bars, clubs, and restaurants. Robertson Quay

Storage buildings once dominated this harbor area, but now you will find bars and members-only party places here. It has a more sophisticated and calm vibe than the other two Quays, with more wining and dining places than party places.

Storage buildings once dominated this harbor area, but now you will find bars and members-only party places here. It has a more sophisticated and calm vibe than the other two Quays, with more wining and dining places than party places. Asian Civilisation Museum

The Asian Civilisation Museum has Asia’s most comprehensive collection of Asian treasures. It is well worth a visit. When we visited, they had an exhibition about Angkor in Cambodia, which was fantastic!

The Asian Civilisation Museum has Asia’s most comprehensive collection of Asian treasures. It is well worth a visit. When we visited, they had an exhibition about Angkor in Cambodia, which was fantastic! Cavenagh Bridge

A Beautiful bridge that was made in Scotland and reassembled in Singapore in 1869. The bridge is illuminated at night.

What’s the catch?

It’s fun for an evening out, but the menu-clutching touts that are continually trying to usher you into their riverside restaurants and the over-the-top colorfully designed nightclubs can get a bit much. You won’t find that many cultural attractions in this area.

Where to stay in the Quays

Top End

The Fullerton Hotel

The Fullerton Hotel is widely regarded as one of Singapore’s most exclusive hotels. Located in an old building that used to be Singapore´s general post office, the Fullerton Hotel is a grand and majestic hotel that oozes classic 5-star luxury.

The rooms are elegant and beautiful, but the real diamond at this hotel is the 25 m-long terrace pool. The hotel has excellent views over Marina Bay. The Italian rooftop restaurant and bar are well worth a visit, even if you are not staying here. The views are amazing!

Click for latest prices

Mid Range

Riverside Hotel

The Riverside Hotel is located at Robertson Quay. Not that it matters much since all the Quays (Robertson, Clarke, and Boat) are located just next to each other along the riverside, and you can easily walk between them.



The hotel itself is a little dated, but it is one of the most affordable options in the Quays area, as most hotels here are costly.

We had a nice clean room, with everything we needed. We particularly liked the floor-to-ceiling windows with great views of the river.

The swimming pool is also excellent, quite big and has many sunbeds. There is a full-service bar and restaurant at the swimming pool, where we ordered lunch and drinks. Overall we had a very comfortable stay at Riverside Hotel Robertson Quay. It is a good value for money in this expensive area of Singapore.

Click for latest prices

Budget

Hotel by Wassies

Such a cute little hotel (opened in 2023) in Boat Quay with super friendly staff and a fun vibe to it. Although the rooms are on the smaller side (12 sqm), they have a smart and compact layout with a private bathroom, smart TV, electric kettle, free toiletries, and air-conditioning. The hotel has a central location, and you can basically walk to most of the main attractions in Singapore. Love the cute theme of this hotel, with small penguins called “Wassie” everywhere. 🙂 The price of this hotel is unbeatable; probably one of the best deals in Singapore. The rooftop swimming pool and terrace are a big plus too.

Click here for the latest prices

KINN Capsule Hotel

This fresh, stylish, and modern capsule hotel is spotlessly clean, with a perfect location in Boat Quay. Here you get your own little air-conditioned capsule to sleep in, in a room with ten capsules (male-only, female-only, or mixed). The capsules have privacy blinds, a folding table, and electric sockets beside the bed. The hotel has a great shared lounge, also a rooftop terrace where you can hang out and socialize with other guests and travelers. The shared bathrooms are clean and have hot water showers. You can also use the laundry machines and a shared kitchen. Love the interior design of this capsule hotel, clearly inspired by Japan, and it even has a tree inside! So cool!

Click here for the latest prices

7. Little India

Little India is a lively, vibrant ethnic district located north of the Singapore River.

While the area is predominantly Indian, Mosques and churches stand alongside Hindu temples and posters for the latest Bollywood blockbusters.

Head to Serangoon Road to experience Little India’s colorful shops selling textiles, cheap fashions, spices, and bargain electronics. Spice racks on display fill the air with mouth-watering smells, and the eateries along Serangoon Road serve up a mix of Indian, Chinese, and Arabian cousins. Whether you are looking for a tasty, cheap curry served on a banana leaf South Indian style or an upscale dining experience Little India rarely disappoints.

In the evenings, the streets fill up, the colorful street light comes on, and Little India becomes a lively place popular with both locals and visitors. Little India is as close to India as you will get without actually going to India.

Why stay in Little India?

Many of Singapore’s best guesthouses and hostels are found here, making it a popular destination for budget travelers, but there are also some excellent mid-range boutique hotels available here.

Little India is the place to stay if you are looking for cheap accommodation options and eating delicious Indian food.

Whereas parts of Singapore can feel a bit “sterile,” Little India is an excellent place to stay if you want to escape the modern shopping malls and experience Singapore’s ethnic roots.

Little India’s two MRT stations (Little India Station and Rochor Station) also make it a convenient base from which to explore the rest of the city, only 15 min to the city center.

Things to See and Do in Little India

Tekka Centre

Explore the lively market stalls of Tekka Centre. Head to the ground floor if you are hungry. Here you find stalls selling vegetarian dishes from India, China, and Malaysia. There is also a wet market on the same floor, with lots of vegetables, seafood, and fruits.

Explore the lively market stalls of Tekka Centre. Head to the ground floor if you are hungry. Here you find stalls selling vegetarian dishes from India, China, and Malaysia. There is also a wet market on the same floor, with lots of vegetables, seafood, and fruits. Sri Veeramakaliamman Temple

Visit the colorful Hindu temple Sri Veeramakaliamman, one of Singapore’s oldest and most famous Hindu temples, constructed in 1881. There are several other temples in this area too.

Visit the colorful Hindu temple Sri Veeramakaliamman, one of Singapore’s oldest and most famous Hindu temples, constructed in 1881. There are several other temples in this area too. Mustafa Centre

Little India’s landmark shopping center is old, packed, and simply unmissable.

What’s the catch?

Little India can get extremely packed and noisy, especially on Sunday evenings when all the Indian foreign workers have their day off. Nightlife is a little limited and ends early.

Top End

One Farrer Hotel & Spa

We were surprised when entering the One Farrer Hotel for check-in as we had not expected this big, modern, comfortable, and posh hotel in Little India!

We loved this hotel from the moment we stepped into the lobby, and it is such an excellent value for your money as it is cheap compared to other 5-star hotels in Singapore. The service is also fantastic.

One Farrer Hotel is located next to Farrer Park MRT station and is only a short walk from the big shopping center Mustafa Centre; that is open 24/7 and is quite an experience. The hotel has a fantastic view over Singapore all the way to Marina Bay from the upper levels.

The huge swimming pool on the 3rd floor is bliss with plenty of sunbeds and sitting groups as well as a bar and cafe with delicious hamburgers. The gym is huge, almost as big as a gym center, and also located on the 3rd floor.

The mini bar in the room is free; yay! 🙂 We got a free room upgrade (I don´t know why it was our lucky day, I guess), and our club room was terrific. To conclude, this is how we felt about our stay at the One Farrer: We did not want to leave! 🙂

Click for latest prices

Mid Range

Wanderlust

We stayed in a wonderful Studio Loft apartment (Loft 408) at the Wanderlust Hotel and loved it. The bed was on the loft, while we had a living room (with a sofa, tv, and desk), a fully-equipped kitchen (with a fridge, microwave, coffee machine, and tea kettle), and a comfortable bathroom (with rainwater shower) downstairs. The kitchen sink had filtered tap water for drinking. Our room was 24 sqm.

We stayed in a Loft room where the bed was on a loft Maria in our kitchen corner

The Wanderlust Hotel is a fantastic, small boutique hotel (29 rooms) housed in a renovated heritage 1920s Art Deco-style building. The interior design is like taken out of a design magazine. Loved it!

The rooms have different sizes and designs, and some have bathtubs. We particularly loved the complimentary washing machines and dryers (with detergent, open 24h) in the common areas on the 2nd floor; they were such a lifesaver. There is also a kitchen on the 2nd floor, which all guests can use.

Our room was so fresh and stylish. I could have stayed there forever. We also loved the rooftop lounge area with seating groups and green plants. Such a lovely place to chill and relax; we particularly enjoyed the plunge pool (open from 9 am until 21/ 9 pm).

The hotel’s ground-floor Kotuwa restaurant serves delicious food, a fusion of Srilankan curry and Asian (the chef is from Sri Lanka, and his previous restaurant got a Michelin star). The restaurant is extremely popular (you should pre-book a table if you want to eat there). But there is also plenty of street food and restaurants around the hotel.

You get a portable phone allowing you to use Google Maps on your way around Singapore, which is very handy! The hotel is right around the corner from the Jalan Besar MRT station and close to the hipster enclave of Jalan Besar. This beautiful boutique hotel is such a gem with a great location!

Click for th latest prices

Budget

Dream Lodge Hostel

If you are looking for affordable hostel accommodation, then this is perfect – clean, tidy, and quiet. The dorms have single and double beds for couples, all with a curtain for some privacy. You get a lockable locker that easily fits a backpack. There are plenty of (shared) bathrooms that are kept spotlessly clean. There is a kitchen area downstairs, a supermarket nearby, and several cafes and restaurants. The closest MRT Station is about a 10-minute walk away.

Click for latest prices

8. Sentosa Island

Sentosa Island is a favorite resort island just south of downtown Singapore. The island used to be a British military fortress but was renamed “Sentosa” and handed over as a part of Singapore after World War II.

Sentosa means “tranquility and peace” in Malay, which is a suitable name for the island with white tropical beaches, beautiful landscapes, luxury resort hotels, and lots of attractions.

Developed as an entertainment center, the small island of Sentosa is packed with activities and experiences to keep you busy. There are two golf courses, a couple of Casinos, and several theme parks, including Universal Studios Singapore and SEA Aquarium, along with boardwalk cafes, restaurants, and a 2 km long human-made white sand beach. You will never have a dull moment at Sentosa!

You can quickly get to and from Sentosa with the cable car, the monorail Sentosa Express, or by walking over the nice pedestrian bridge (a 10 min walk), all from HarbourFront Station (purple North East Line and orange Circle Line).