Link: https://nerdnomads.com/where-to-stay-in-lofoten-islands#comments

Title: Where To Stay In The Lofoten Islands (Norway) – Lofoten’s Best Rorbuer & Hotels

Are you planning a trip to Lofoten and wondering where to stay in the Lofoten Islands? Here we give you a complete guide to what we think are the best places to stay in Lofoten, with our favorite Lofoten hotels and rorbuer. We hope this where-to-stay guide to Lofoten can help you plan your Lofoten trip. 🙂

The Lofoten Islands is a nature paradise with tall peaky mountains, fjords, and islands with beautiful beaches. Tucket, in between the mountains, along the fjords, you find small fishing villages with restaurants, cafes, art galleries, museums, and last but not least, excellent hotels and cozy fishermen’s cabins (called rorbuer in Norwegian).

Loften is excellent for outdoor activities, and every year climbers, hikers, surfers, and kayak paddlers come to explore the rugged nature. And if you are a photographer, you’ll find stunning Instagram-worthy shots no matter where you point your camera lens.

Add in the Northern Lights in the autumn and winter (September – April) and the Midnight Sun in the summer (end of May – mid-July), and hardly any place beats a visit to Lofoten when it comes to breathtaking scenery.

There is so much to experience in Lofoten that we’ve written a guide with 41 Amazing Things To Do In Lofoten Islands, filled with all our must-see and do favorites.

If possible, we recommend that you have at least five days in Lofoten, ideally ten days, to fully explore the Lofoten islands and their highlights. You find our recommended Lofoten travel itinerary here: The Ultimate Road Trip Adventure To Lofoten Islands.

If you’re just getting started planning your Lofoten trip, then see our Lofoten Travel Guide.

How To Find The Best Lofoten Accommodation

Lofoten is a relatively small and compact archipelago where you can drive from one end to another in just a few hours. You should still think about where you want to stay in the Lofoten Islands to make the most out of your time in Lofoten.

The first question you should ask yourself when planning where to stay in the Lofoten Islands is: Do you want to base yourself in one place for your entire Lofoten trip? And make day trips around the islands from there? Or do you want to move around, changing accommodations every night?

Having One Base In Lofoten

If you want to have one base in Lofoten, at one hotel or rorbu, then I recommend staying somewhere in the middle of Lofoten.

Our favorite place to have as one base in Lofoten is Ballstad. Ballstad is a cozy and still active fishing village where people live and work. In Ballstad, Hattvika Lodge is our favorite place to stay. Read more about Ballstad and why this is our favorite one-base-place in Lofoten further down in this article.

Moving Around In Lofoten

Another option is to move around, staying in multiple places during your Lofoten trip so you don’t have to head back to your base each evening. In that case, you should check out our Lofoten Itinerary. Here you will find a complete road trip with the best route to take through all of Lofoten’s highlights, the best hotels at each place, and how many days you should spend at each place.

Book Your Lofoten Accommodation Well Ahead

Over the recent five years or so, Lofoten has exploded as a tourist destination, largely thanks to Instagram and social media. Lofoten gets packed during summer, especially in July when we local Norwegians have a summer holiday. There are actually queues on the narrow roads around the Lofoten islands in Norway’s main holiday weeks in July. And really difficult to find a parking spot at the most popular hiking trails and villages.

In 2023, the main summer holiday in Norway is 7. July – 30. July. The school holiday in Norway is from around 22. June until around 21. August (this differs a bit from city to city in Norway).

Although Lofoten has a lot of hotels and accommodations, you should book well ahead, especially if you are visiting during in high season in summer (June – August). When it is high season, hotels and rorbuer tend to sell out, and it can be challenging to find a place to sleep.

My friend Kristine and I discovered this the hard way on our girl’s trip to Lofoten in July. We had no bookings, and almost everywhere was fully booked! One night we ended up sleeping in someone’s basement….not that fun.

Tenting In Lofoten

While Norway is well known as a tenter’s paradise, Lofoten is not where I recommend basing your trip on tenting out in the wild for free. As most of Lofoten is private property, it is hard to find a place to camp. Furthermore, more and more beaches and mountain tops in Lofoten have made it illegal to put up a tent. Reinebringen Mountain is one place where you cannot put up a tent.

The general rules for tenting in Lofoten are as follows: You can tent for free in Norway’s nature, like in the woods, mountains, and coastal areas/ beaches. But, the tent must be placed at least 150 meters from houses or cabins. And you can only tent in the same spot two days in a row. However, if you are tenting remotely in the mountains and far away from houses and people, you can tent in the same spot for longer.

If you plan to camp in Lofoten, I recommend that you put up your tent (or park your campervan) at one of the campgrounds in Lofoten, like:

They charge around 200 NOK = US$ 22 for a tent (and car) per night. Free Wifi and use of the toilet and showers are included.

Otherwise, you can find a map of where you can camp for free in Lofoten (with a tent or camper van) here.

Exploring Lofoten with a camper van has exploded during the last couple of years. You can rent camper vans in Lofoten, Bodø, Tromso, Harstad, or Narvik. Several camping sights around Lofoten cater to camper vans.

Types Of Accommodation Available

Lofoten is famous for its fishermen’s cabins (called “rorbuer” in Norwegian). Staying in a rorbu is the most unique and popular way to stay in Lofoten and a must for at least a couple of nights to get the complete Lofoten experience.

Btw, if you plan to head to Lofoten in late autumn and winter (October – April), you may find that many restaurants are closed for the low season. In that case, it might be a good idea to choose accommodation with a kitchen.

Lofoten Rorbuer/ Fishermen’s Cabins

You have probably seen the rorbuer in photos from Norway. The typical Norwegian red wooden cabins clingingin to the shore along fjords with steep mountains as a backdrop. These red cabins are rorbuer or fishermen’s cottages.

In the old days, from around 1100, thousands of men from all over northern Norway came to Lofoten to participate in the cod fishing season (January – April). So naturally, they needed a place to stay, and small fishermen’s cabins were built and rented out along the coast of northern Norway, especially in Lofoten.

You might wonder why these small cabins are called the strange name “rorbu.” Well, the word “ror” comes from the word rowing, while the “bu” means a small house/ cabin.

Today, the fishermen’s cabins have been renovated into modern accommodations, although they usually have kept some old timber and interior. As a result, the rorbuer are often a bit rustic in design with a homey feel.

Lofoten rorbuer are like tiny houses and usually have a kitchen (or kitchenette) with a fridge and stove, a private bathroom (toilet and shower/ bathtub), a living room with a couch, armchairs, and dining table, one or two bedrooms, and a terrace.

Since the rorbuer are located just next to the sea, you have a fantastic sea view from your rorbu, and it is a great place to watch the Northern Lights or the Midnight Sun.

You can usually park just outside your rorbu, which is very convenient. Most rorbuer have free Wifi, although not all have a TV, so bring your laptop if you want to watch some series or a movie.

If you plan to visit Lofoten during winter, you should opt for accommodations with a kitchen, as many restaurants are closed for the season. The exception is Svolvær City, where you will always be able to find open restaurants and cafes.

And if you have the time to stay at different places around the Lofoten islands, you definitely should do so, as you then get to explore the different areas of Lofoten.

Lofoten Hotels

Svolvær City

There are also a few modern hotels in Lofoten. Most of them are in Svolvær city, where our favorites are (yes, we have stayed at them all):

Henningsvær

Henningsvær also has a lovely hotel beautifully located by the sea and with a central location, where we stayed two nights – Henningsvær Bryggehotell.

Reine & Å

If you plan on staying in the southern part of Lofoten (in the Reine and Å area), we had a great stay at the new and modern hotel – The Tide Hotel (opened in 2022).

The Tide Hotel is conveniently located halfway between Reine and Å. It is also only a 5-min drive from Moskenes ferry port for the ferry to/ from Bodø. The rooms are modern and comfortable, and the hotel has a fantastic restaurant, Havet Restaurant & Bar (which can be translated into The Sea Restaurant), with the most fantastic sea view and delicious food. We actually had the best meal on our entire Lofoten trip here.

Other than these five Lofoten hotels, there are primarily apartments and fishermen’s cabins/ rorbu for rent in Lofoten Islands.

Our fresh and modern room at The Tide Hotel Fantastic view from Havet Restaurant at The Tide Hotel

Where To Stay In The Lofoten Islands

Here is a list of what we believe are the best places to stay in Lofoten, along with our favorite Lofoten hotels and rorbuer.

The 7 Best Places To Stay In Lofoten

Our seven favorite places to stay in the Lofoten Islands are:

Ballstad – The Most Convenient One-Base Place In The Middle Of Lofoten Nusfjord – Lofoten’s Coziest Historic Fishing Village Reine – Lofoten’s Most Picturesque And Famous Area Henningsvær – Lofoten’s Hippest Fishing Village Svolvær – Stay In Lofoten’s Capital City With Great Shopping And Restaurants Kabelvåg – Small Town Feeling Close To Svolvær City Gimsøy Island – Lofoten’s Best Place To Stay For Northern Lights & Midnight Sun

Read on to find out why these are our favorite places to base ourselves when visiting Lofoten and our favorite hotels and rorbuer at each place.

﻿ ﻿

A map of what we consider to be the best hotels & rorbuer in Lofoten

1. Ballstad – The Most Convenient One-Base Place In Lofoten

The fishing village Ballstad has a convenient location right in the middle of the Lofoten Islands.

It is a great place to have as your base for exploring Lofoten, as you can easily make day trips around Lofoten. Examples of driving distances to/ from Ballstad to popular day trip destinations:

Ballstad – Svolvær city/ Svolvær Airport: 78 km, 1 hour 15 min

Ballstad – Leknes city/ Leknes Airport: 10 km, 10 min

Ballstad – Henningsvær: 71 km, 1 hour 15 min

Ballstad – Lofotr Viking Museum: 23 km, 25 min

Ballstad – Haukland Beach: 19 km, 25 min

Ballstad – Reine: 61 km, 1 hour 15 min

Ballstad – Moskenes Ferry Port for ferry from/ to Bodø: 65 km, 1 hour 20 min

Ballstad – Å: 69 km, 1 hour 25 min

Ballstad is still an active fishing village today. In fact, it is Lofoten’s largest fishing village. Unlike, for instance, fishing villages like Å and Nusfjord, which are more like open-air museums than villages where people live and work.

Ballstad is only a 10-min drive from Leknes city, one of only two cities in Lofoten (the other is Svolvaer). In Leknes, you find big grocery shops, petrol stations, shopping malls, restaurants, and cafes. Leknes also has an airport. And last but not least, Leknes has a Vinmonopolet!

You might not know this, but Vinmonopolet is the only shop in Norway where you can buy wine and liquor. You cannot buy wine at grocery shops. Most grocery shops sell beer, however, but in Lofoten, only until 20:00 on weekdays and 15:00 on Saturdays (all grocery shops are closed on Sundays). There are only two Vinmonopolet in Lofoten – in Leknes and Svolvaer.

Ballstad is a great place to stay any time of the year as the shops and restaurants in Ballstad and Leknas are open all year round, and not just in the summer season.

Ballstad has several nice accommodation options. Here are our favorites:

Hattvika Lodge – Ballstad

Hattvika Lodge in Ballstad has some of Lofoten’s most stylish architectonical cabins/ rorbuer. The ten architect-designed cabins constructed in 2020 are modern and minimalistic, located on a small hilltop right by the sea.

Their large windows give you a fantastic view of the sea. Here you can lay in a warm, comfortable bed while watching the Northern Lights dance across the sky or admire the Midnight Sun during summer.

However, the biggest perk at Hattvika Lodge is its fantastic sauna with big windows. The sauna sits on poles at the edge of the wooden pier, perfect for a dip in the Arctic sea. If you are lucky, you get to see the Aurora too.

Great sea view from Hattvika Lodge The cool seafront sauna at Hattvika Lodge

The Hattvika Lodge is family-run, owned and run by Guri Jentoft and her husband, Kristian Bøe. The property has been in Guri’s family for six generations. Although it became a modern rorbu hotel in 2016, it dates back to the 1870s.

At Hattvika Lodge, you also have the option to stay in one of the sixteen more traditional rorbu/ cottages (the red ones in the photos above). They have been modernized and have all the facilities a modern traveler needs, like a kitchen and bathroom. But they are not as stylish as the ten newbuilt design cottages. If you want to stay in the new design cabins, they are called “Deluxe Studio” on Booking.com.

The cabins are different in design and size; some can house up to eight people. Hattvika Lodge also has a restaurant – Restaurant Fangst, where you can indulge in traditional dishes made from seasonal local Lofoten ingredients. The menu is based on daily caught seafood and dried/salted fish. The restaurant also has a rooftop balcony with a fantastic view of Ballstad, the sea, and the mountains.

Click here for more info and the latest prices at Hattvika Lodge

Hemmingodden Lodge – Ballstad

We stayed five nights at Hemingodden Lodge, where we stayed in a cozy rorbu and had a great stay. We got a warm welcoming from the owners Trond-Ketil and Ellen, the perfect hosts. The Hemmingodden Lodge is a small family business.

We stayed in the old traditional “Linbua,” which was a bit rustic. It was actually the only one they had left; everything else was fully booked (we visited in July, which is peak season). But we liked the rorbu Linbua. It was clean and had a small kitchen (with a fridge and stove), a bathroom, and beds in the attic. They do have modern new apartments and modern cabins. The best part of the rorbu was, however, the terrace with excellent views of Ballstad harbor, the fjord, and the mountains.

We also got to try their new restaurant, Heim Restaurant (which can be translated into “Home Restaurant”), which serves fantastic food and has the most excellent sea view. Hemmingodden Lodge also arranges fishing trips with Kato, an experienced fisherman who knows all the “secret” and best fishing spots. You can also rent a boat at Hemmingodden Lodge, and take a boat trip to, for instance, the beaches Kvalvika and Bunesstranda, or visit Reine (a 1-hour boat trip from Hemmingodden).

Hemmingodden Lodge now has a newly built sauna, which can house up to ten people and is beautifully located right by the sea. It was not finished when we stayed here, so we can’t wait to try it out on our next visit!

Click here for more info and the latest prices at Hemmingodden Lodge

Solsiden Brygge Rorbuer – Ballstad

Solsiden Brygge Rorbu Hotel has thirty beautiful and newly renovated rorbu apartments and designer suites. They all look stylish and comfortable. The rorbuer varies in size and design, with 1-3 bedrooms, a kitchen, and a private bathroom.

We had dinner at Solsiden Brygge’s fantastic restaurant, Solsiden Restaurant, which serves Neapolitan pizza and seafood. We really enjoyed their specialty – grilled Stockfish. It was delicious and a must-try!

I was enjoying grilled Stockfish at Solsiden in Ballstad Grilled Stockfish is one of Lofoten's specialties

At Solsiden Brygge, you can rent your own boat, kayak, or sup board or join a fun fishing trip with the historic wooden ship “Sira.” Solsiden also has a fantastic sauna, which is actually an old barn from the 19th century! You can see the beautiful old timber of the barn when relaxing in the sauna. The barn was used to store food like flour and dried meat.

Click here for more info and the latest prices at Solsiden Brygge Rorbuer

2. Nusfjord – Lofoten’s Coziest Historic Fishing Village

Nusfjord is a small historic fishing village in the heart of the Lofoten Islands, mentioned by the Unesco World Heritage Site.

At Nusfjord, you get a feel of how life used to be in this fishing village’s heydays at the beginning of 1900 when over 1500 fishermen lived here.

Today, the whole town has been turned into a fantastic open-air museum where you can walk around and look at the old fish oil factory, smokery, blacksmith, bakery/ shop, and boathouse. Nusfjord also has an excellent art gallery, Salteriet Galleri (which can be translated into “The Saltery Gallery”). When we visited Nusfjord, the art gallery hosted an exhibition by the Queen of Norway, Sonja, and Magne Furuholmen from the pop-band A-HA. The queen was actually present on the day we visited, which was awesome.

Not many people live in Nusfjord; it is mainly inhabited during summer.

Driving distances to/ from Nusfjord:

Nusfjord – Svolvær city: 92 km, 1 hour, 30 min

Nusfjord – Leknes city: 27 km, 30 min

Nusfjord – Lofotr Viking Museum: 37 km, 40 min

Nusfjord – Reine: 41 km, 50 min

Nusfjord – Å: 49 km, 1 hour

Nusfjord only has one hotel with rorbuer:

Nusfjord Arctic Resort Rorbuer

Of all the accommodations we stayed at in Lofoten, I must say that Nusfjord Arctic Resort was the coziest. The 20 traditional cabins/ rorbuer at this resort have a fantastic location, right in the heart of tiny and tranquil Nusfjord.

The cabins have been newly renovated, where they have kept the old vibe but blended it with a modern touch and comfort. The result is stunning! I love how they have kept the old timber in the walls.

The high-end cabins have a bedroom (the beds are heaven!), a living room, and a modern bathroom (with a waterfall shower, some have a bathtub, too), and some have a kitchenette (including a Nespresso machine, tea maker, and fridge). I also love that they have bathroom essentials from Molton Brown (especially the shampoo, which smells fantastic).

The cabins next to the sea have a private waterfront terrace. Free parking close to the rorbu.

Homey living room at our rorbu Maria enjoying the view of Nusfjord and the sea

We stayed in cabin 30, right by the sea and Nusfjord harbor. Our tiny house cabin was excellent and beautiful and even had some art on the walls made by the Queen Sonja of Norway.

I loved the small details and touches at this rorbu hotel, like that a Norwegian chocolate Kvikklunsj was welcoming us at the kitchen table. The bathrobes and slippers were super soft and gave us a luxury feel.

A small kitchenette with coffee machine and fridge A Kvikklunsj chocolate was waiting for us in the kitchen

The only downside was that the cabin did not have a tv. Not that we felt we needed it. We also had our laptops with us (strong free wifi is included) to watch the news and a Netflix series in the evening. 🙂

The breakfast at Nusfjord Arctic Resort was among our best on our Lofoten trip! Unfortunately, we did not eat dinner in the restaurant, but we went to the pub one evening and tried their wood-fired pizza, which was great.

Nusfjord Arctic Resort has some of Lofoten’s most luxurious and stylish rorbuer. You will not go wrong by staying here!

Click here for more info and the latest prices at Nusfjord Arctic Resort

3. Reine – Stay In Lofoten’s Most Picturesque Area

Reine area (which includes the small islands Sakrisøy and Hamnøy) is, without doubt, Lofoten’s most famous and most visited place. It is famous for its breathing scenery of red and yellow fishermen’s cabins dotted along the turquoise-colored fjords surrounded by tall peaky mountains.

Reine is Lofoten’s Instagram star, and of all the Lofoten photos you have seen on social media, most are from the Reine area.

The Reine area is the best place to base yourself to explore the southern part of Lofoten with short driving distances to, for instance, Å, Sund, and the ferry to/ from Bodø city (Moskenes).

There are several restaurants and cafes in the Reine area, like Anita’s Seafood on Sakrisøy with Lofoten’s best fish burger, as well as a grocery shop (Coop Prix Reine located on Sakrisøy Island) and a petrol station (Circle K in downtown Reine).

Reine also has one of Lofoten’s most spectacular and popular hikes – Reinebringen Mountain.

Almost all visitors to the Lofoten Islands stop in Reine. Therefore, it can get pretty packed, especially in July, and it can be difficult to find a parking space. Therefore, I recommend staying at least a night or two in the Reine area. We loved walking around in the Reine area in the evenings when all the day-trippers had left. It was all so peaceful and quiet and we could really enjoy this little fishing village.

In the Reine area, we also include the two small islands Hamnoy and Sakrisoy (connected by bridges) which you drive past (main E10 road) on your way to Reine. It only takes about 10-min to drive from Hamnøy to Reine and 5 minutes from Sakrisøy. You can actually easily walk or bicycle from Hamnøy and Sakrisøy to downtown Reine.

Other driving distances from/ to Reine are:

Reine – Svolvær city: 121 km, 2 hours 20 min

Reine – Leknes city: 56 km, 1 hour 10 min

Reine – Å: 9 km, 10 min

Reine – Moskenes Ferry Port for the ferry to/ from Bodø city: 5 km, 7 min

Eliassen Rorbuer – Hamnøy Island

If you have seen some photos of red fishermen’s cabins/ rorbuer with tall peaky mountains as a backdrop on Instagram or social media, you have most likely seen Eliassen Rorbuer. This rorbu hotel is probably Lofoten’s most famous and photographed!

Of course, we had to take the famous Lofoten/ Eliassen Rorbuer Insta-shot too. You can see it below. 🙂

Eliassen Rorbuer is situated on the tiny island Hamnøy (connected by bridges), just a short 10-min drive from Reine, 20-min from Lofoten’s end-point Å, and a 15-min drive from the ferry to Bodø (Moskenes Ferryport).

Here you can walk around the drying racks for fish while admiring the beautiful landscape of fjords, mountains, and islands surrounding Eliassen Rorbuer.

Eliassen Rorbuer’s 69 cabins/ apartments used to be old fishermen’s cabins, dating back to the mid-1870s, but have been renovated into modern accommodations with a lovely design. One of my ancestors, Wulff-Nilsen, built the fishing industry and manor house (my last name is Wulff) that you can still see at Eliassen Rorbuer (the manor house now houses the reception).

You can choose between one-, two- or three-bedroom apartments or cabins. Each has a fully equipped kitchen, a large living and dining room with comfortable furniture, and a modern bathroom with a shower. Free high-speed free WiFi access is available throughout the whole resort. Free parking is right outside the cabin.

Eliassen has a newly renovated restaurant – Gadus (opened in 2020), which serves high-quality food, a fusion of Norwegian and Italian. Try their homemade fresh pasta; it is heavenly good!

Click here for more info and the latest prices at Eliassen Rorbuer

Sakrisøy Rorbuer

You have most likely seen Sakrisøy Rorbuer and its yellow fishermen’s cabins in photos from Lofoten on Instagram and other social media. It is one of Lofoten’s most photographed places.

The small island Sakrisøy which is beautifully tucked between tall peaky mountains and fjords is one of Lofoten’s oldest fishing villages, dating back to 1874. Here you can choose to stay in one of the newly renovated rorbuer/ fishermen’s cabins or the big stylish manor house:

The fishermen’s cabins, or rorbuer, on Sakrisoy, are located right by the sea with a fantastic view of Reinefjord and the famous mountains of Reine. The cabins are yellow, which is unusual as most fishermen’s cottages in Lofoten are painted red.

The cabins are beautifully renovated and have all the modern facilities that a modern traveler needs, like wifi, a private bathroom with floor heating, comfortable beds, a kitchen, a bedroom (some of the cabins have two bedrooms), and a cozy living room. The cabins do not have a TV, however.

You can choose between several types of cabins/tiny houses with one or two bedrooms.

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Sakrisøy Rorbuer

Olstind Cabin – Sakrisøy Island

One of the finest cabins on Sakrisøy (in my opinion) is the Olstind Cabin which belongs to the restaurant Anitas Mathus. The Olstind Cabin has been beautifully renovated, and I love that they have kept the old timber walls.

Through the huge panoramic windows, the view of Olstind Mountain is breathtaking. Watching the Northern Lights from this cabin must be a dream come true.

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Olstind Cabin

Sakrisøy Gjestegård/ Manor House

A unique place to stay is in the big white elegant mansion house of the old Sakrisøy fishing village.

The house was originally constructed in 1880. It has been transformed into a beautiful boutique hotel by the fifth generation of the family Gylseth.

The beautiful white Manor House at Sakrisøy Anitas Mat on Sakrisoy sells Lofoten's most famous fish burger

This boutique hotel has 14 rooms (double beds or twin beds), some with a private bathroom and some with a shared bathroom. If you want to feel like the owner of the fishing village (the “væreier” in Norwegian), you should opt for the top floor suite (Olstind suite), which has a private kitchen and a private balcony with amazing views of the mountains and fjords. It looks fantastic!

The guests can use the shared rooms of the house like it was their home, like the kitchen, big living room, balcony, and beautiful garden.

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Sakrisøy Gjestegård

Catogården Boutique Hotel – Downtown Reine

The beautiful white mansion house in downtown Reine has been converted into a stylish and homey boutique hotel – Catogården Boutique Hotel.

Here you can sleep in uniquely designed rooms in one of the oldest properties in Lofoten, dating back to 1775.

However, the old house burned down during World War II and was rebuilt after the war by Mr. Cato Sverdrup (that is how the hotel got its name, “The Cato House”). Later the house served as a school, a dance hall, and the city hall.

Today, the house consists of ten unique hotel rooms, each filled with a great mix of modern comfort and antique furniture and decor. And the view from the hotel windows is breathtaking! Each room has its unique color palette and design, but none of the rooms have numbers. Instead, you are encouraged to write your name on the room door to make it feel like your home.

The rooms have shared bathrooms. There are six bathrooms altogether, so almost one per room, and they are spotlessly clean.

As a guest at the boutique hotel, you can join a daily morning Kundalini Yoga class for free (it starts at 08:00 am and lasts for about 90 min). No previous Yoga experience is required; everybody can join in. You are also welcome to use the gym room for free.

You can park for free at the property, but they don’t serve breakfast as the hotel does not have a restaurant yet. There is, however, just a short walk from Catogården to the Gammelbua Restaurant and the Bringen Cafe (try their cinnamon buns!).

The boutique hotel has a shared balcony with breathtaking views of the sea and mountains. Here you can have coffee, tea, or wine, meet other guests and travelers, and enjoy the Midnight Sun or the Northern Lights. The living room downstairs is also cozy, where you can hang out and enjoy some “hygge” in front of the fireplace.

Complimentary tea and coffee are available all day, and there is a small kitchenette in the living room as well. If the weather is good, you can do some barbeque in the garden.

Reine is one of the most famous fishing villages in Lofoten Ragnhild who owns and runs Catogården is such a nice lady!

The hotel also runs a kayak center where you can book kayak tours. Last but not least, the owner and hostess of this boutique hotel, Ragnhild, is the sweetest woman and so welcoming.

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Catogården Boutique Hotel

4. Henningsvær – Stay In Lofoten’s Hippest Fishing Village

If I were to live in Lofoten, I would have picked Henningsvær. Henningsvær has it all, fantastic nature and hiking options, nice and cool shops, and some of Lofotens best restaurants and cafes. You should not miss the cafes and restaurants Klatrekafeen, Lysstøyperiet, and Trevarefabrikken.

In Henningsvær, you also find two fantastic art galleries – Kaviar Factory and Gallery Lofoten.

Henningsvær is very popular, especially in summer, so it can be really difficult to find a parking space. We were so glad that we spent two nights here so that we could park for free right outside our accommodation – Henningsvær Bryggehotell, located right in the downtown of Henningsvær.

Also, a lot of people only come to Henninsvær on a day trip. It was great to experience Henningsvær in the evening when all the day-trippers had left, and we could walk around the streets in peace and quiet.

Driving distances to/ from Henningsvær:

Henningsvaer – Svolvaer city/ Svolvaer Airport: 25 km, 30 min

Henningsvaer – Lofotr Viking Museum: 48 km, 50 min

Henningsvaer – Leknes city: 61 km, 1 hour

Henningsvaer – Reine: 113 km, 2 hours

Henningsvær Bryggehotell

We stayed three nights at Henningsvær Bryggehotell and loved it!

The beautiful white wooden hotel has the perfect location right by the harbor of Henningsvær, and it is only a few minutes’ walk to all the action of downtown Henningsvær.

The rooms are cozy and newly renovated in a classic style. The service was excellent, and the staff was so welcoming.

Our room was not the biggest (14 sqm) and had no TV, but it was very clean, comfortable, nicely decorated, and had a radio and a private bathroom. I loved the comfy beds, which had down duvets (warm and soft!). Our room also had a coffee machine.

The lobby is cozy, and we enjoyed the outside area where you can relax and hang out and have a drink on the terrace overlooking the sea and harbor of Henningsvær.

I loved the breakfast with lots of choices, one of the best we had in Lofoten. Tea and coffee are free for the hotel guest the whole day, and complimentary bike rentals are convenient for exploring Henningsvær and its surroundings.

Me enjoying the breakfast view at Henningsvaer Bryggehotell Fantastic breakfast at Henningsvaer Bryggehotell

In addition, there is free parking and chargers for electric cars right outside the hotel, which is excellent as there is a lack of parking spaces in Henningsvær in general.

Click here for more info and the latest prices at Henningsvær Bryggehotell

Trevarefabrikken – Henningsvær

Trevarefabrikken (which can be translated into something like “the carpentry fabric”) is the new and hippest place in Lofoten these days. Even if you choose not to stay here, you should visitTrevarefabrikken for something to eat or drink.

An old concrete factory building has been transformed into a trendy and fresh hotel, restaurant, cafe & bar, ocean sauna, Yoga place, hike organizer, and music scene. It has a central location by the sea and is right in the middle of downtown Henningsvær.

Their five individually designed rooms are airy and have a modern and edgy Scandinavian design with a fantastic view of the ocean or the village.

The rooms range in size from the smallest (which can accommodate two people), “Carpenters Double,” which is 22 m², to the biggest (for 2-6 people), “The Big Loft” of 45 m² and a kitchenette. All rooms have a private bathroom and include breakfast in the cozy cafe. Free parking is right outside.

Trevarefabrikken also has a wooden sauna with huge glass windows where you can sit inside in the warmth from the sauna oven and enjoy the view of Vestfjord and maybe the Northern Lights or the Midnight Sun. Or, if you dare, why not have a dip in the Arctic fjord? I promise you it is refreshingly cold. 🙂 You can book the Sauna even if you are not staying at Trevarefabrikken.

Did I mention that Trevarefabrikken has one of Lofoten’s best pizzas? Their hand-made pizzas filled with delicious local ingredients are baked in the wood-fired brick oven outside the factory, right by the sea. The pizzeria is open from April until October.

In addition, their restaurant & cafe, Hermetikken, is open from March until December, while their wine bar Trandamperiet is open from mid-June until mid-August.

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Trevarefabrikken

5. Svolvær – Stay In Lofoten’s Capital City

Being the capital city of Lofoten, Svolvaer is Lofoten’s main transport hub, with an airport and harbor for the coastal ferry, Hurtigruten. When you drive into the Lofoten Islands from the mainland (via the main road E10 through the Lofast Tunnels), Svolvaer is one of the first places you reach.

In Svolvaer, you find lots of restaurants and cafes, grocery shops, shopping malls, and Vinmonopolet. It is a very convenient place to stay as you have everything close by. From Svolvaer, you can also do boat tours to the famous Trollfjord, and other great tours.

Driving distances to/ from Svolvaer City:

Svolvaer – Henningsvaer: 25 km, 30 min

Svolvaer – Reine: 121 km, 2 hours, 10 min

Svinøya Rorbuer

Svinøya Rorbuer is one of the most charming places to stay in Lofoten’s capital city Svolvær.

Svinøya Rorbuer has 38 rorbuer and apartments, which are all modernized and cozy. The cabins, located on the small island of Svinøya, are only a short walk from downtown Svolvær (over a bridge).

The cabins have one to three bedrooms, private bathrooms, a living room, and a fully-equipped kitchen. You can also choose to stay in one of their several historic houses, like the storehouse, bell house, telegraph house, or foreman’s house: such a cool and authentic experience.

Even the big Manor house is possible for rent (for special occasions as it can accommodate 17 people). If you’d rather stay in a modern apartment, Svinøya Rorbuer also has five apartments for rent in the summer months.

The tiny island of Svinøya, a part of Svolvær city, is a beautiful area to explore on a walk around the island.

Svinoya Rorbuer has one of Lofoten’s best and most renowned restaurants – Børsen Restaurant. Eating here is a must, and their grilled stockfish is world-famous. Make sure to pre-book a table, as Børsen Restaurant often gets fully booked, especially during summer (July).

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Svinøya Rorbuer

Other great accommodation options in Svolvær include Anker Brygge, which also has fishermen’s cabins and a central location in downtown Svolvær.

However, if you want to stay in a more regular and modern hotel in Svolvaer, we recommend Thon Hotel Svolvær, where we had a fantastic stay. Thon Hotel Svolvær is faily new (opened in 2021) and has a convenient location right in the middle of downtown Svolvær.

6. Kabelvåg – Small Town Feeling Close To Svolvær

Kabelvåg is a small town just outside of Svolvaer City (a 10-min drive). So if you want to stay close to the capital city of Lofoten with all its restaurants and shops, but not in the city itself, then Kabelvåg is perfect.

In Kabelvåg, you also find some of Lofoten’s biggest sights and attractions: Lofoten Aquarium, Gallery Espolin, Lofoten Cathedral, and Lofoten Musuem.

Nyvågar Rorbuhotell

Located in Storvågan in Kabelvåg, Nyvågar Robuhotell has a great location only a few minute’s walk away from some of Loften’s biggest attractions – Lofoten Aquarium, Lofoten Museum, and the Art Gallery Espolin.

See what else you should not miss in Kabelvåg here.

It only takes 10 min to drive from Nyvågar Rorbuhotell to Svolvær City and 16 min to drive to Svolvær Airport.

At Nyvågar Rorbuhotell, you can stay in modern rorbuer/ fishermen’s cabins right by the sea, surrounded by mountains and fjords.

The 30 rorbu/ cabins all have two bedrooms (4 beds) and are 50 m² in size. The cabins have two floors and have everything you need – a private bathroom (toilet and shower), a cozy living room with a TV, and a fully equipped kitchen (with a cooker, kettle, and fridge).

WIFI, cleaning, towels, bedding, and free parking, are all included.

All cabins have a terrace or balcony where you can sit and enjoy the scenery and maybe even the Northern Lights or Midnight Sun. Or why not try their sauna and go for a refreshing dip in the sea. And if you want to have a barbeque, there are barbeque facilities right on the property. There is a kid’s playground at the hotel as well.

The hotel also has an excellent restaurant – Nyvågar Restaurant, where you can have local dinner while enjoying a fantastic sea view. They serve dinner every day and lunch on Saturdays and Sundays.

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Nyvågar Rorbuhotell

7. Gimsøy Island – Lofoten’s Best Place To Stay For Northern Lights & Midnight Sun

Picture yourself sitting inside a warm, modern, comfortable cabin next to a fireplace with a cup of coffee or a glass of wine in your hand, and the Northern Lights or Midnight Sun is showing off right outside the huge cabin windows. This is real “hygge” for us Norwegians. If this is your dream, too, then Lofoten Links Lodges is your cup of tea!

With its remote and stunning location right by the beautiful white sandy Hov Beach on Gimsoy Island in Lofoten, this is the perfect place to watch the Northern Lights in winter and Midnight Sun in summer. Here you can get those crispy sharp photographs of the Aurora dancing across the sky as there is no light pollution in this area.

Driving distances from/ to Gimsøy Island (connected by a bridge):

Gimsoy – Svolvaer city: 40 km, 40 min

Gimsoy – Leknes city: 50 km, 1 hour

Gimsoy – Reine: 100 km, 1 hour 50 min

Lofoten Links Lodges

The newly built, modern, and luxurious cabins at Lofoten Links Lodges are warm and comfortable, also in winter.

The eight lodges each have three bedrooms, all with a private bathroom (so three bedrooms and three bathrooms). The lodges have a fully-equipped kitchen and living room with a fireplace and a terrace where you can sit and watch the Northern Lights or Midnight Sun. The cabins have huge floor-to-roof windows with a fantastic view. Free parking is right outside the cabin. Unfortunately, pets are not allowed inside the cabins.

Lofoten Links Lodges is a 40-min drive from Svolvær city & the airport.

If you are a big group or family or just want an entire cabin for yourself, you can opt for the whole cabin (which can accommodate up to six people) or one of the two Deluxe Standard Lodge 10 or 11. Lodges no. 10 and 11 have three bedrooms, one shared bathroom, and a wood-fired hot tub on the terrace (lodge no. 11 also has a private sauna).

The Lofoten Links Lodges are a part of the Lofoten Links Golf, a spectacular 18-hole championship golf course tucked between the Arctic Sea and mountains.

Breakfast is not included. But just a short walk from the Lofoten Links Lodges, you find the Hov Farm with its lovely and rustic Restaurant Låven. Here you can enjoy a local breakfast, lunch, and dinner made of local ingredients from Lofoten.

A popular activity at the Hov farm is horse riding. You can go riding on “Viking horses” all year round on trails used by Vikings 1000 years ago. Nothing sounds more romantic than riding under the Midnight Sun in summer or under the Northern Lights in winter. The farm has about 50 beautiful Icelandic horses. You can also rent the Sauna at Hov Farm.

Click here for more info and the latest prices on Lofoten Links Lodges

There you have it, our favorite 10 best places to stay in the Lofoten Islands.

We hope you got some ideas and inspiration on where to stay during your Lofoten trip!

Quick Summary – Where To Stay In The Lofoten Islands

If you plan on only staying one place in Lofoten (as a base), you should opt for Ballstad – Hattvika Lodge, Hemmingodden Lodge, or Solsiden Brygge Rorbuer.

If you want to travel around the Lofoten Islands and see most of the highlights, but are short on the number of days, then I recommend that you stay a few nights in the northern part, in Svolvaer or Kabelvag – Svinoya Rorbuer, Anker Brygge, Thon Hotel, or Nyvågar Rorbuhotell. And a few nights in the southern part, in the Reine area – Eliassen Rorbuer, Sakrisoy Rorbuer, and The Tide Hotel.

If you have more days in Lofoten, around one week (or preferably ten days or two weeks), our favorite places to stay in Lofoten are Nusfjord Arctic Resort and Henningsvaer Bryggehotell.

And as always, don’t hesitate to leave us a comment if you have any further questions or think we have forgotten something. If you have already been to Lofoten, what is your favorite Lofoten accommodation? We would love to hear from you! 🙂

Read next – start planning your Lofoten trip here:

In-depth Lofoten Destination Guides:

PIN IT FOR LATER!

Hover over the pictures below and press the red Save button that pops up: