Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/animal-lovers-guide/

Title: Wildlife paradise for animal-lovers

Besides its natural habitats, wealth of diverse flora and lush green spaces, Singapore is home to a multitude of ecological parks, aquariums and farms, making it a great destination for animal-lovers in search of adventure and discovery.

Whether you’re journeying beneath the waves at S.E.A. Aquarium™ or discovering teeming wildlife amidst the natural habitats of the Singapore Zoo, these locales are bound to deepen your love for all creatures and the rich habitats they inhabit.

Singapore Zoo—To walk with majestic wildlife

Kickstart your journey of discovery at Singapore Zoo, home to over 2,400 animals across 300 species. Unlike conventional zoos, Singapore Zoo prides itself in a unique open zoo setting, where animals can roam freely in habitats simulating their homes in the wild. Encounter free-roaming animals as you journey through Fragile Forest, and hang out at the world’s first free-ranging orangutan habitat where these arboreal primates swing, lounge and play right above you. To maximise your experience, participate in many feeding and photo-taking opportunities with your favourite animals such as giraffes, elephants, rhinoceros and more. For a more in-depth encounter, sign up for the Wild Discovery Tour where an expert guide shows you and your little ones around the most popular exhibits, share secrets about the animals and their daily care routine. This exclusive “backstage pass” even lets you interact with the rhinoceros or giraffes, and giant tortoises. Singapore Zoo. 80 Mandai Lake Road, Singapore 729826. +65 6269 3411.

Daily 8.30am-6pm.

Night Safari—Hang out at Singapore’s no.1 night spot

Step under the cover of darkness and get ready for a wild night out at the world’s first nocturnal wildlife park, Night Safari. This award-winning attraction is perfect for animal-lovers looking for an after-dark adventure. Night Safari is home to almost 900 animals across 100 species, of which 41% are threatened. Animals that call the Night Safari home include Malayan Tapirs, Sunda Pangolins and park icon Chawang, the majestic Asian Elephant. Learn more about nocturnal wildlife onboard the Guided Tram Ride, which journeys through six of the world’s geographical regions, and soak in the sights and sounds of the night along four walking trails. Witness the natural talents of fascinating creatures such as civets, binturongs, capybaras and more at the Creatures of the Night show, and catch the newest Southern Three-banded Armadillo at the new Explorer Outpost along the Fishing Cat Trail. To maximise your visit, register for the Safari Adventure Tour where an experienced guide shows you the best kept secrets of the Night Safari on a buggy ride on the Leopard Trail. Learn more from the keepers about the amazing gentle giants in an exclusive elephant feeding session. Night Safari. 80 Mandai Lake Road, Singapore 729826.

+65 6269 3411.

Daily 7.15pm-11pm.

S.E.A Aquarium™—To uncover aquatic treasures

Make the depths of the ocean your new world to explore at S.E.A Aquarium™, which comprises of 50 different oceanic habitats and 100,000 aquatic creatures, from leopard sharks to manta rays. The establishment’s various attractions include the interactive Coral Garden, the Shark Seas Habitat and the Open Ocean Gallery. The latter is one of the world’s largest aquariums and home to over 800 species of marine life, from outgoing bottlenose dolphins to deadly hammerhead sharks. Resorts World™ Sentosa. 8 Sentosa Gateway, Sentosa Island, Singapore 098269.

Opens daily 10am, closing time varies. Please visit the official website for more information.

River Wonders—To voyage along rivers

Freshwater habitats are as fascinating as their briny counterparts, as evidenced by the myriad charms of the River Wonders. Explore the world’s iconic river habitats which is home to over 7,500 aquatic and land animals representing close to 240 species. Ride on the rapids of the Amazon Quest Boat Ride to spot the well-camouflaged and elusive Amazonian wildlife such as the Giant Anteater and Jaguar. Don’t forget to visit giant pandas, Kai Kai and Jia Jia in the region’s largest panda exhibit. For a cosy encounter with the manatees, sign up for the Manatee Mania tour to learn more about their quirks, partake in their training and even have a go at hand-feeding them during meal time. Before you leave, catch the latest animal presentation – Once Upon a River – where you can learn more about Giant Pelicans, cute Hedgehogs, and even the largest living rodent, the Capybara. You may even get a photo opportunity with your favourite animal stars after the show. River Wonders. 80 Mandai Lake Road, Singapore 729826. +65 6269 3411.

Daily 10am-7pm.

Gallop Stable—To hone your horse-riding skills

If you’ve always dreamed of being a cowboy or a knight on horseback, Gallop Stable will bring you one step closer to achieving your goal. While revolvers and medieval armour aren’t included, this beloved establishment is a popular destination for those looking to hone their horse-back riding skills. You’ll find a plethora of horse-related activities to embark in, including lessons, trail rides and pony feeding for the little ones. Gallop Stable at Horsecity (Bukit Timah). 100 Turf Club Road Singapore 287992. +65 6463 6012.

Tue-Sun 8am-8pm. Gallop Stable at Pasir Ris. 61 Pasir Ris Green Carpark C, Singapore 518225. +65 6589 9665.

Tue-Sun 8am-8pm.

The Cat Café—To befriend cats over a cup of coffee

If your notion of a peaceful afternoon involves a cup of hot coffee and a feline curled up in your lap, you need to pay The Cat Café a visit.

A tranquil eatery that doubles up as a home for stray kittens and abandoned moggies, this charming little realm of adorable felines is the perfect destination for cat lovers. The café comes stoked with toys and treats to entertain the cats, and you won’t have to bring anything to befriend your new furry acquaintances. Parents should take note that there’s a minimum age restriction of six and above for visitors to the café.

The Cat Café. 241B Victoria Street Level 3, Singapore 188030. +65 6338 6815.

Mon 3-10pm; Tue-Sun 10am-10pm.

The Animal Resort—To encounter a menagerie of farm animals

You’ll want to hail a cab if you’re looking to visit the Animal Resort, nestled along Seletar West Farmway. A hidden gem that has its own rustic appeal, this animal-lover’s haven will give you an authentic taste of kampong (traditional village) life during the early stages of Singapore’s development.

The animals who make their abode here are a charming assortment of avian, domestic and farm creatures, from ducks and rabbits to a retired race horse. Most of the animals here roam the ground freely, and visitors are welcome to feed them with packs of food from the counter.

The Animal Resort. 81 Seletar West Farmway 5, Singapore 798061. +65 6482 1160.

Daily 10am-5pm.