Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/year-round-events-for-the-family/

Title: Year-round events for the family

Taking a trip to Singapore with your loved ones? From music festivals to marathons, our city is home to myriad family-friendly events that’ll have you enjoying quality time together.

Mark the dates on your calendar and get ready for a rip-roaring time in the Lion City.

January – March

Chingay Parade

Usher in the Lunar New Year with your little ones by indulging in the pomp and pageantry of the Chingay Parade.

A beloved local tradition, this annual street parade is a dazzling display of light and sound, with a procession of multi-hued floats, intricate props and colourful performances that're bound to provide an enchanting experience for children and teenagers alike.

Singapore Symphony Orchestra’s Concerts for Children Families that love classical music should also check out the Singapore Symphony’s Orchestra’s (SSO) Concerts for Children Series. Equal parts enchanting and educational, this year-round event has the talented musicians of the SSO serenading your kids, while teaching them about the instruments present in an orchestra.

April – June

Gallery Children’s Biennale If you’re looking for an artistic adventure, head to the National Gallery Singapore for the Gallery Children’s Biennale. The Biennale runs throughout the year, with the aim of nurture a generation of art-loving children. Expect to be enchanted by interactive music workshops, story-telling sessions and a whole range of other activities. Other family-friendly sections of the National Gallery Singapore include the Keppel Centre for Art Education, where children can create their own artworks and discover art through play.

July – September

Singapore Garden Festival

Indulge in a world of greenery and discover Singapore's natural wonders with the annual Singapore Garden Festival.

Happening in the heart of the city, this festival celebrates the wondrous world of flora, with a multitude of flowers from all across the globe. Nurture your child's love for nature with a range of enchanting installations, landscape displays and floral competitions from both amateur and veteran gardeners.

Singapore Night Festival Discover the Lion City after dark with the Singapore Night Festival, a two-week festival that transforms the Brash Basah.Bugis district into a realm of wonderment and unforgettable spectacle. This annual extravaganza features a kaleidoscope of street art and surreal light sculptures, live music and enchanting performances from renowned artists. If you’re looking to inspire a love for art in your children, this mesmerizing event is bound to enthral and illuminate.

October – December

Singapore Writer’s Festival

Stories help us make sense of the world, and parents who’d like to encourage their children to read can get assistance from some of the literary world’s brightest stars.

The Singapore Writer’s Festival regularly hosts some of the world’s most prominent novelists, poets and storytellers, from Pulitzer Prize winner Junot Diaz to British poet laureate Carol Ann Duffy.

SWF3—the festival’s annual kids’ programme—boasts educational workshops, interactive activities and readings from locally loved authors, making it ideal for tots and teens alike.

Standard Chartered Singapore Marathon A year-end event that attracts adrenaline lovers of all stripes, the Standard Chartered Singapore Marathon is a great way to push your limits alongside your little ones. Grownups can work up a sweat with a variety of race formats, while their children can participate as well, with shorter races which typically run from two to four kilometres.