Link: https://www.hellosingaporetours.com/about-us#spotlight

Title: Your Team of Friendly Local Singapore Guides — Hello! Singapore Tours

Hi Everyone! My name is Daryl. Like all ethnic Chinese in Singapore, my roots are in China. My grandfather came to Singapore from a city call Nan Hai, in the southern Chinese province of Canton. He arrived on the shore of Singapore in the early part of the 20th century, soon after, he met my grandmother, fell in love, and decided to make this lovely and sunny tropical island, his new home. My father and I were born and bred here in Singapore. Hence, I am a third generation Chinese.

I am proud of my Cantonese roots, thus, apart from English, I speak fluent Mandarin and Cantonese. And being surrounded by Indonesia and Malaysia, most Singaporeans like myself also have an elementary command of Bahasa Indonesia. After working for years in the financial industry, I went through a period of self-reflection. I realised that, in order for me to be fulfilled and to achieve my goal of having a balanced lifestyle, I needed to boldly pursue my childhood aspiration of being a professional tourist guide in my beloved country of birth, the Lion City, Singapore. And that was exactly what I did, and I have never looked back since!

Singapore, situated right in the heart of South East Asia, is a multi-racial, multi-lingual, multi-religious cosmopolitan city. With its unique mix of modernity and colourful heritage and a breath-taking concoction of East and West cultures, Singapore promises to be your perfect holiday destination.

I live in a fascinating and culturally rich area of Singapore called Tiong Bahru. It is a heritage area built in the 1940s and 50s in a unique art deco architectural style. Today there are many hip cafes and boutique shops interspersed between the traditional businesses. It is a fantastic area that I would be glad to show you around. If you chose to travel with me as your guide, you will feel the love and passion that I have for my country. I will share a plethora of fun facts and fascinating anecdotes that make up the amazing cultural and historical backdrop of Singapore!

The spiciest constituent of Singapore’s culture must surely be our Culinary Culture! And, who better than a bona fide food lover like myself, to help you sample the mind-boggling varieties of local Singaporean street foods and delights! At the same time, you may want to explore the streets that are off the beaten track, nestled in our cultural enclaves like Chinatown, Little India, Katong, and Kampong Glam. If you are a big history buff like myself, we can enjoy an exciting afternoon blazing the trail at some of the renowned WWII sites in Singapore!

Whatever your preferences, I will tailor-make a one-of-a-kind itinerary for you, allowing you to explore the hidden cultural, historical and culinary gems, tucked away in the intricate and inviting streets of Singapore.

I give you my personal commitment to proved you with a fully personalised, immersive, and localised tour of a Lifetime! So, what are you waiting for? Put on your walking shoes and sun protection and follow me!