Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/editorials/your-guide-to-shopping-in-singapore/

Title: Your guide to shopping in Singapore

From its history as a colonial trading port to its modern identity as a global metropolis, Singapore has long been the home of wondrous wares and troves of treasures.

Our bespoke boutiques, world-class malls and inspired artisans transform shopping into an unforgettable experience for every tourist.

Spend some time experiencing our shopping malls

If this is your first-time shopping in Singapore, you may want to schedule more time than you had originally intended.

More than just retail havens, our malls are filled with exciting activities and immersive environments, making them destinations in their own rights.

Scale Funan’s massive climbing wall in between shopping for tech gadgets, take a sampan (flat-bottomed wooden boat) ride between shopping sprees for luxury brands at Marina Bay Sands®, or spend the afternoon romping with the kids at Jewel Changi’s Canopy Park.

Add a Singaporean touch to your wardrobe

Iconic global brands aren’t the only options available for avid shoppers in Singapore. Our city of passionate craftsmen, ateliers and designers are constantly creating beautiful wares, from Bynd Artisan’s bespoke journals to SBTG’s punk-inspired kicks.

In Good Company’s classic threads, Aijek’s creative range of women’s fashion and Beyond The Vines’ elegant dresses are just some of the local treasures you’ll find in Singapore. You’ll find these stores all across the island, so be sure to keep your eyes peeled for opportunities to shop local.

Don’t miss out on the buzz and bustle of Orchard Road

Whether you’re looking to buy high-street fashion or splurge on sparkling bling, Orchard Road is a must-visit destination.

World-class malls and luxury brands abound on Singapore’s most iconic shopping belt. Mandarin Gallery, Ion Orchard and Paragon stock a plethora of luxury labels and global brands, while street fashion abounds at malls like Far East Plaza.

To discover what Singapore’s craftsmen have to offer, drop by TANGS and Design Orchard. The latter stocks items from over 60 of our island’s most well-loved designers and brands. Orchid-scented fragrances, fashion-forward sportswear and Asian-inspired threads are just some of the treasures that await you.

If you’re planning a year-end trip to Singapore, you may want to schedule your visit to coincide with Christmas On A Great Street together with your family. This annual event turns Orchard Road into a festive wonderland filled with bright lights, live performances and beautiful decorations.

Explore our cultural districts for hidden gems

You don’t have to be Lara Croft or Indiana Jones to find hidden gems in Singapore. Take a jaunt through our heritage districts, and you’ll unearth a trove that’d make any shopper green with envy.

Peranakan* kebayas (a traditional blouse-dress incorporating Malay and Chinese motifs) in Katong-Joo Chiat and exquisite cheongsam in Chinatown are some of the treasures waiting to be uncovered.

The Malay heritage district of Kampong Gelam boasts stores selling traditional treasures and contemporary wares alike, from ceremonial Kris (dagger with a distinct, wavy blade) to artisanal leather goods.

Alternatively, drop by Little India Arcade in the Little India District—this vast emporium stocks everything from saris and silks to jewellery and traditional sweets.

*The term is an Indonesian/Malay word that means “local born”, which generally refers to people of Chinese and Malay/Indonesian heritage.

Venture beyond to local haunts and malls

One of the best ways to experience our vibrant retail scene is to spend time shopping like a true blue local. Heartland malls like Tampines 1, Jem® and Westgate boast a diverse range of retail, fashion and lifestyle stores such as Uniqlo, H&M and Don Don Donki, while Mustafa Centre—a popular haunt among locals in the late hours—is a massive emporium that stocks everything from gadgets to groceries. Pro tip: you may want to buy a suitcase here, and stock up everything from souvenirs to pastries.

Create and personalise your purchases

There’s no better way to express your individuality than to create an item that you can truly call your own.

Depending on the craft that tickles your fancy, you can try your hand at distilling gin at Brass Lion Distillery or working with leather goods at Atelier Lodge. These learning opportunities will deepen your appreciation for artisanship, and help you embody your inner craftsman.

You don’t have to build an item from scratch to convey your personal style. Local and global outlets alike offer numerous customisation options for your purchases, from embossing your wallets at Stone For Gold to customising your sneakers at Jewel Changi’s Nike Duplex.

Bring home a souvenir from Singapore