Link: https://www.visitsingapore.com/festivals-events-singapore/annual-highlights/zoukout/

Title: ZoukOut Singapore 2022

Singapore’s most epic dance and music festival is back with a bang, with the return of ZoukOut to Sentosa after a three-year hiatus.

Happening for two whole nights from 2–3 December, 2022’s edition of the festival is shaping up to be an unforgettable affair, with a line-up of the world’s top DJs and local talents.

So break out the beachwear, slip on your flip flops and brace yourself for the experience of a lifetime, with the return of Singapore’s most beloved dance party.

Dancing from dawn till dusk

This year’s edition of ZoukOut will feature a who’s who of electronic dance music (EDM) royalty, from Andrew Rayel ‘the modern day Mozart’ to Grammy-awarded nominated DJ Armin Van Buuren.

Other iconic DJs who’ll be manning the decks over the two-night party at Siloso Beach, Sentosa include ‘The Godfather of EDM’ Tiësto, House legend Shiba San and local stalwarts of the dance scene, including Che’Molly, Ghetto and Zouk’s resident DJ Jeremy Boon.

This year’s edition of the festival—themed The Futuristic City of Dreams—is set to deliver a visual extravaganza with its stage design, and take attendees on a futuristic trip into dreams and make-believe.

Partygoers can expect to get their groove on at a full-fledged festival ground with a food village, activity booths, custom installations, and roving acts.

ZoukOut— An Epic Origins Story

Zouk, the organisers of ZoukOut, is a 31-year old nightlife brand and one of the island’s most legendary dance clubs, with state-of-the-art sound and lighting systems. More than just a venue, this nightlife institution is often credited with polishing the reputation of Singapore’s clubbing scene.

The first ZoukOut began life as a modest, one-night only affair in 2000—drawing 9,000 revellers— but it didn’t take long for the dance music festival to build up a legion of loyal followers, with tens of thousands attending every year.

With its global reputation, the festival has drawn some of the biggest names in the music industry onto its stages, with past years’ line-ups including Above&Beyond, Armin Van Buuren, David Guetta and Carl Cox.

The Singapore Tourism Awards has twice crowned ZoukOut the ‘Best Leisure Event Experience’ in the city, and it has graced the international stage in cities like Hong Kong, Boracay and Tokyo.